Africa and the Trump Administration&nbsp;Delves into Intersection of Africa and Washington, Offers African-Perspective on US/Africa RelationsWASHINGTON &ndash; May 2, 2017 &ndash; Africa Today TV announced today the launch of a new current events talk show, Africa and the Trump Administration, premiering this Sunday, May 7, at 10am. The program will offer an Africa-focused version of Washington&rsquo;s tradition of the Sunday talk show circuit.The weekly talk show is available on MHZ, through syndication in Africa, and online. Segments premiere Sundays at 10am, and are rebroadcast Sundays at 6pm and 10pm and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 8pm. &nbsp;(All times EST.)&nbsp; A preview of Africa and the Trump Administration is available at http://africatodaytv.com/africaandtrump/Hosting the program is well-known journalist, Carol Pineau, formerly a reporter for CNN in Africa and producer of several award-winning documentaries, including the groundbreaking film, Africa Open for Business.Africa and the Trump Administration looks at the intersection of Africa and Washington, how changes enacted by this administration will impact Africa, and what Africans want from the US/Africa relationship. With round-table discussions with experts and viewer questions, the program aims to create a robust debate on the US and Africa today.The first segment looks at America&rsquo;s influence in Africa, particularly with massive Chinese investment and lessening of US domination of global financing for development and geopolitics. The show provocatively asks whether for Africa, America is still relevant? Guests include well-known Africanists, Dr. Vera Songwe and Witney Schniedman, as well as Chief Political Correspondent and White House Reporter for Newsmax Media, John Gizzi.Future segments will focus on trade and investment, effectiveness of aid in development, terrorism and security in African, and how new immigration laws could affect African diaspora living in America, particularly in Virginia, one of only two states to holding gubernatorial elections in 2017, and home to a large African diaspora population.About Africa Today TV: Africa Today TV&nbsp;is the only Africa-focused television channel available in Washington D.C. and throughout the entire USA. The channel is an important source of news and entertainment for African diaspora and Americans interested in international public affairs and business. &nbsp;Africa Today TV shines a light on Africa&rsquo;s people, challenges, achievements and global relationships, and serves as a communication, political, economic, cultural and educational bridge between Africa and the United States.Contact: Holly Skibo, africatodaytvpress@gmail.com, Tel. 610-297-2615