The man who gave us the hit song &ldquo;Micasa Sucasa&rdquo; now confronts hit haters and the notorious Kenyans On Twitter to speak his truth in a new track aptly titled &ldquo;Toa Tint&rdquo;.After an interview on The Trend to promote his solo show at Alchemist on the 6th May, rapper Khaligraph aka The O.G appeared to have a lighter complexion. Almost unrecognizable, the rapper explained his latest endeavors and steered clear of the rumors surrounding his new complexion.As one of Kenya&rsquo;s hip-hop heavyweights, he is known for his quick flow and lyricism ranked among the top 5 rappers in Kenya. &ldquo;Wanjiru and Akinyi&rdquo; rapper seemed to have lost some of his street cred with the latest move. Khaligraph definitely had tongues wagging with his new and improved look. Presenting himself as much lighter, brighter version of himself many fans wondered why he decided to make such a drastic change. Needless to say, other rappers including Kibera&rsquo;s finest Octopizzo did not pass up the chance to take a stab at the rapper. It seemed as though the public outrage would be the death of Khaligraph&rsquo;s career.However, the &ldquo;Mazishi&rdquo; star seems to have risen from the dead, presenting a comeback track where he has no qualms telling his truth and using the various titles K.O.T gave him as ammunition to shot down any doubts that the new look would affect his talent. Discussed as a matter of low self esteem or a means to improve his popularity, now known to some as Julius Yellow, Papa Jones, Mr. Sidika aka and now know as OJik , Khaligraph&rsquo;s latest stunt only served to create more buzz on his persona while exposing the cracks in society of critical matters of self-worth and self-acceptance. In reply to haters, he says in the track, &rdquo; I don&rsquo;t give a f*#k, I want to be Micheal Jackson&hellip;form ya ma light skin&hellip;&rdquo; Line after line, Khaligraph goes to town dropping bars redeeming himself.&nbsp;Peep the audio for his new track below.No matter the underlying issues, Khaligraph is still winning with his latest diss track. Only time will tell if his brand will suffer the consequences of his latest stunt.