Boston &mdash; Opportunity for Manufacturers to Pre-install Video Services on Smartphones That Offer Exclusive BenefitsA recent study from the User Experience Strategies (UXS) Service at Strategy Analytics (www.strategyanalytics.com) has assessed Chinese mobile video consumers' behaviors, preferences, and attitudes towards video services. Participants reported spending more time watching videos on smartphones than other connected devices including connected TVs and computers. A strong willingness to pay for video content was also exhibited due to an increasing lack of free content in China.Surveying consumers in China, Strategy Analytics has found that the type of content watched on a smartphone by Chinese consumers is becoming similar to what they used to only watch on devices with a larger display - longer content including movies, TV series, and variety shows. As the time spent on video being viewed on a smartphone is likely to keep increasing in China, the mobile video viewing experience will become more important and the ability to fulfil consumers' changing needs of mobile video viewing will be vital.Click here for the report: http://sa-link.cc/1jqChris Schreiner, Director of Syndicated Research, UXIP commented, "An important behavioral and attitudinal change of mobile video consumers in China in 2016 was that they were much more willing to pay a subscription fee for video content. Moreover, some consumers have already been paying for multiple video services to watch desired content, which reveals a new opportunity for hardware manufacturers to seek closer cooperation with video service providers."Kevin Nolan, Vice President, UXIP added, "This provides the opportunity to pre-install video services on smartphones that offer exclusive benefits such as content aggregation from multiple sources, one subscription to access multiple services and discounted or free subscription offers. This can only work to improve brand attractiveness and consumer loyalty."About Strategy AnalyticsStrategy Analytics, Inc. provides the competitive edge with advisory services, consulting and actionable market intelligence for emerging technology, mobile and wireless, digital consumer and automotive electronics companies. With offices in North America, Europe and Asia, Strategy Analytics delivers insights for enterprise success. www.StrategyAnalytics.com.About User Experience Strategies (UXS)Analyzing UX innovation opportunities in wireless, smart home, and other emerging technologies, UXS forms part of the User Experience Innovation Practice (UXIP) at Strategy Analytics. Focusing on user behaviors, motivations and interests across multiple consumer verticals, UXIP helps clients meet consumer needs, develop usable solutions and deliver compelling user experiences through both syndicated and proprietary research capabilities. With our extensive expertise in large-scale survey work, in-depth interviews, focus groups and observational sessions, UXIP's research methodologies allow strategic user-centric analysis on the potential for new technologies. Providing actionable insight, go-to-market strategies and business recommendations, UXIP is a leading supplier of consumer knowledge to the technology industry. Click here for more information.Press ContactsUS Contact: Chris Schreiner, +1 617 614 0713, cschreiner@strategyanalytics.comEuropean Contact: Diane O'Neill, +44(0) 1908 423 669, doneill@strategyanalytics.comLogo - http://mma.prnewswire.com/media/453838/Strategy_Analytics_Logo.jpg