NAIROBI, Kenya, April 10, 2017/APO/ &mdash; Donation from KQ, GE and Boeing to boost aviation training in the regionAerospace and Aviation Engineering programme students at Technical University of Kenya (TUK) can now afford hands-on training on a high-tech CF6-80A2 aircraft engine that powers Airbus A310 and Boeing 767.The CF6-80A2 engine manufactured by General Electric (GE) along with aviation maintenance training books, training aids, reading materials, used aircraft parts and aircraft manuals were donated today by Kenya Airways, GE and Boeing as a joint initiative to enable capacity building in aviation training schools in the region.The donated CF6 engine will enable aeronautical engineering students to experience hands-on learning with one of the most popular wide body aircraft engine in service todaySpeaking during the handover ceremony held at the Technical University of Kenya, Kenya Airways, Strategy and Performance Management Director Thomas Omondi said,&nbsp;&ldquo;Our donation today further strengthens our commitment to ensure a stronger foundation of aeronautical knowledge, skills and more experience to aviation technicians and engineers even as they prepare for job market either with us or elsewhere. We are extremely happy to support the next generation of aircraft maintenance engineers&rdquo;.On his part, Regional Sales Director for GE Aviation in Africa Dr. Rajiv Bissessur said, &ldquo;As Africa&rsquo;s aviation industry continues to grow, the need for skilled aviation professionals in the region is also on the rise, and GE Aviation is proud to play a role in the skill development efforts underway at the Technical University of Kenya.&rdquo;&ldquo;The donated CF6 engine will enable aeronautical engineering students to experience hands-on learning with one of the most popular wide body aircraft engine in service today and increase the pool of talented aviation experts that will be needed to service the needs of the airlines in Africa and around the world.&rdquo; Rajiv added.Receiving the training equipment&rsquo;s, Vice Chancellor Technical University of Kenya Prof. F.W.O Aduol hailed the partnership and said, &ldquo;This donation will provide the much needed practical and research orientation to our technician and engineering students and thus increase their competitiveness. This will make us the University of Choice for aspiring aviation professionals in the region&rdquo;.TU-K is one of the three universities in sub-Saharan Africa that offers Bachelor of Aeronautical Engineering.About Kenya Airways: Kenya Airways (Kenya-Airways.com), a member of the Sky Team Alliance, is a leading African airline flying to 52 destinations worldwide, 42 of which are in Africa and carries over three million passengers annually. It continues to modernize its fleet with its 41 aircraft being some of the youngest in Africa. This includes its flagship B787 Dreamliner aircrafts. The on-board service is renowned and the lie-flat business class seat on the wide-body aircraft is consistently voted among the world&rsquo;s top 10. Kenya Airways takes pride for being in the forefront of connecting Africa to the World and the World to Africa through its hub at the new ultra-modern Terminal 1A at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi. Kenya Airways celebrated 40 years of operations in January 2017 while KQ Cargo was named African Cargo Airline of the year 2017. For more information, please visit&nbsp;Kenya-Airways.com.About GE: GE (NYSE: GE) (GE.com) is the world&rsquo;s Digital Industrial Company, transforming industry with software-defined machines and solutions that are connected, responsive and predictive. GE is organized around a global exchange of knowledge, the &ldquo;GE Store,&rdquo; through which each business shares and accesses the same technology, markets, structure and intellect. Each invention further fuels innovation and application across our industrial sectors. With people, services, technology and scale, GE delivers better outcomes for customers by speaking the language of industry.