Last week, Uganda media was awash with stories and comments about the refugee crisis in our country. The crisis had made Uganda to be chosen as a deserving venue for a Summit Solidarity Conference on Refugees.At the summit, Uganda was praised for our unique and exceptional hospitality to refugees. More praises were reserved for Mr Yoweri Museveni, who later told the conference that he was going to find land to settle the refugees outside camps.Museveni said refugees were offering a good market for Uganda products, especially food. He also happily noted that the conference had raised about $350m from donors for the upkeep of the refugees in the country, which money he saw as good injection into his ailing economy. What is disturbing, however, is the fact that apart from the UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, who repeatedly called upon the East African leaders to work hard and ensure that war ends in South Sudan, most participants and media commentators did not want to address the issue of causes of the influx of refugees in the region.One of such commentators was a Sunday Monitor columnist Bernard Tabaire. In his article, 'Reasons why Uganda's good refugee policy could change' in the Sunday Monitor of June 25, he wrote something particularly offensive to Ugandans who host and assist the refugees. He wrote, '... the current very welcoming environment (to refugees) is also the work of President Yoweri Museveni, the self-claimed pan-Africanist'. Then, to hammer his point home, he asked rhetorically, 'Have people like UN boss Antonio Guterres, a former head of the UN refugee agency, contemplated Uganda having a new leader sooner whose policy may be less charitable than Mr Museveni's?" Clearly, Tabaire was informing whoever is concerned with refugees that their best bet in Uganda for now, is the continued rule of Museveni, never mind the fact that his rule constitutionally ends in 2021.Like all Museveni apologists would want us to believe so, Tabaire too seems to be pushing the tired line that all good things in Uganda came with Museveni in 1986. How sad! In the first place, we must note that Uganda has been and remains a hospitable country to refugees.As early as 1950, Uganda received Rwandese, some of whom have since been naturalised as citizens. In 1940, we received Congolese, who have equally been naturalised. In 1960, there was an influx of the Anyanya One supporters from Southern Sudan. Many of them were later naturalised.The children of all these refugees were raised and educated here. Today, some of them have held senior ministerial positions. It is not Museveni who created that good environment. He found it here and will leave it here. Uganda had never hosted more than 1.2 million refugees before and from 13 countries. Is the number that big because Museveni is more pan-Africanist, more kind and more welcoming than all his predecessors? No! There were never such numbers in the region.The question we should all be asking, therefore, is, what are the causes of the current huge numbers of refugees? Only if we find correct answers to this question, shall we find the solution to the growing refugee crisis. Burying our heads in the sand and praising a man who is part of the problem or collecting donor funds will certainly not solve anything.We are aware that internal political conflicts, persecutions of all forms, discrimination, poverty, unemployment and bad economy cause refugees to flee their country. But invasions and international wars cause mega departures as it is happening in South Sudan right now. Museveni is now pontificating and receiving praises as a great humanitarian. Surely? Isn't he the very one who has been at the centre of fuelling bloody conflicts within the region and thus creating refugees? He unconstitutionally invaded DR Congo and with his allies, reportedly caused the death of more than 4 million people and an influx of refugees, now numbering more than 200,000, into Uganda.Later, Congo took Uganda to the International Court of Justice for the invasion and subsequent war crimes. They won the case and Uganda was fined $10 billion, which is now one of our country's foreign debts, but which his [Museveni's] government has refused to recognise and provide for it.In his comment, Tabaire quoted a certain South Sudanese refugee lady, Joyce Napesa, who gave a testimony to the Munyonyo conference: "Soldiers stormed our village... They rounded up the men and killed many of them. My husband was taken and I do not know whether he is alive or not". Perhaps conveniently, Tabaire forgot to tell us that those were the Gen Salva Kiir's soldiers, who Museveni sent our army to support in prompting up his friend's tribal and brutal regime.Museveni sided with Salva Kiir Mayardit against Dr Riek Machar, directly engaging our army in a foreign civil war while at the same time claiming to be the arbiter.The result of this warlord adventure is the about 800,000 refugees in West Nile region. If Museveni did not invade South Sudan, the situation in that country would be totally different.Similar case in Rwanda. If he did not invade Rwanda, would there have occurred the genocide and the influx of refugees? No. We believe without the attack; the Rwanda question would have been solved with less loss to human life.What the NRM regime have done in neighbouring countries is almost similar to what they have been doing at home. Causing massive displacements of people, creating concentration camps, dividing and setting tribes and ethnics groups against each other, causing poverty and then pretending to be the champion of people's interests! They have been systematic at home particularly in areas where they notice growing political dissent or where they want to grab people's land. They have done that in Acholi, in Buganda, in Bunyoro, in Kasese, in Teso and in greater Bukedi mostly for political and economic gain to the ruling clique.We are sure Tabaire knows these things very well. He knows that there have never been such massive displacements of people in Uganda and in the region any other time than in the hands of Museveni, the mistaken champion of solving refugee crisis.