It was entertainment at its best at old Parade Ground in Abuja on Saturday as the Glo Mega Music Nationwide Tour landed at the nation's capital city with Nollywood diva, Patience Ozokwor popularly known as "Mama G" using the show to celebrate the nations 's unity in this tense period.The Nollywood legend, who made celebrity appearance at the show alongside two Nollywood veterans, Kanayo O. Kanayo, (KOK of Professor Johnbull fame) and Richard Mofe-Damijo, RMD, thanked the audience for welcoming her to the show in a special way. She then proceeded to hail all the Ibos, Yorubas and Hausas in the hall. She ended her greetings uniquely, with a long shout of "Nigeria kwesuenu o" which was roundly applauded by the crowd."Your love is killing me and thank you for loving me so much. It is because of your love I keep doing what I am doing. I just want to thank Glo for doing this show for the people. Glo is made in Nigeria, for Nigeria and by Nigerians". Mama G added.Also speaking, KOK urged the people to keep supporting Globacom "for the good things the network is doing for our people". Lending credence to his grandiloquent style as Professor Johnbull, the lead character in the TV Drama Series, Professor Johnbull, sponsored by Globacom, KOK added to the excitement of guests at the show when he said: "tonight, Abuja is on fire. That is what I called paradoxical fire" which elicited a chorus of "Professor Sir!" from the ecstatic crowd.The show was anchored by the duo of Nollywood's Mercy Johnson-Okojie and Juliet Ibrahim from Ghollywood, who both thrilled the crowd with their skills. While Mercy displayed her dexterity on Konga drum, Juliet, gave the crowd something to cheer, by gyrating smoothly to Timaya's track, Ukwu.The show kicked-off with delightful performance by "I don get alert" crooner, Korede Bello of Marvin Records. Korede stole the show, especially with his two popular tracks, Butterfly and Mungo Park which wowed the crowd.It was however, Mavin records show as Reekado Bank took over from him and reinforced Korede's performance, giving the crowd outstanding performance.Yemi Alade, the afro-pop queen, was the next artiste on stage. With unique dancing styles and perfect rendition of her songs, Yemi wowed the crowd with different tracks, including Pose, Ferrari, Charliee and others. The fun continued with the arrival of Douglas Jack Agwu popularly known as Runtown. The dancehall master who got the crowd dancing with Lagos to Kampala, Mad Over You, The Banger, Walahitalahi, Money Bag and Baby Answer You which took the show to higher level.After Runtown, Phyno, the number one rapper from the East of the Niger emerged and turned the show to carnival with the crowd singing and dancing as he rendered different tracks including I Go Chop Your Dollars, So Far So Good, Financial Woman, Fada Fada and other hit tracks. He was followed by the Nabania master, Flavour, and he continued at the same high tempo, combining highlife and hip-hop. Typical of Flavour, he took control of the stage and crowd, belting out one track after the other powerfully which the crowd enjoyed thoroughly.Next was Tuface Idibia, the veteran Nigerian Singer and songwriter whose appearance on the stage was roundly applauded. After entertaining the crowd, Tuface rounded off with the popular True Love track which got the crowd dancing.The show was rounded off by Shakiti Bobo and Eledami crooner, Olamide and the singing duo of P Square who all gave the crowd enough entertainment to last them for a long time to come.One of the highlights of the show was the performance of 14-year old saxophonist, Trump Odi, who stole the show with perfect instrumental performance of Phynos' popular track Fada Fada.Speaking after the show, a pharmacist, Kryim Angel, said, "what is most remarkable about this show is that unlike when show promoters will advertise big stars and will end up not bringing any, Globacom not only delivered but over delivered. I am not sure if I will ever see all these stars together like this. Kudos to Globacom, I had enough fun".