It's that season when young men and women enter into life-long unions--wed. Owners of reception halls are raking in money. People offering services like decorating, entertaining and catering are also busy.The major events now include weddings, send-offs and kitchen parties. But, they come at a cost.As for the rest, contribution cards are pouring in. Ask anyone you know, and they will tell you that they have four, five or more cards in at the office or at home.Contributions left, right and centre. This will go on until around next January. In a strange way, such social events have turned into an industry of its own kind.So, on my way to the office, I was accompanied by a young man - a university student. As we talked, the subject of weddings came up."Aren't we overdoing it?" he asks."Why? I think people contribute so that they would enjoy themselves, meet their kin and kith and even make new friends, as they accompany the newlyweds," I suggest."These contributions are just too much! Imagine, I'm still a student, but there are people who expect me to contribute, and mind you if I'm to go with a friend, then I must contribute at least Sh100,000," he laments."That's the way things are, my friends. You contribute today so that tomorrow, when it's your turn to get married or have a close relative these people would contribute for your event, it's a circle," I try to comfort him.It's raining cats and dogs as we drive in an old Toyota model. The AC is not working, so we must use a rag to fight off the fogging forming on the windscreen."How come we don't use the same mechanism to raise school fees? Parents and guardians are left on their own when it comes to providing their children with an education," he suggests."Well. That'll need a major change of societal mind-set. You, the youth of today can bring about that change. For instance, why should one struggle on his own to build a house? What if, say, ten or fifteen young people pull their resources together and slowly build a house for each member in turns? Wouldn't that be easier?" I challenge him."Indeed. We must change what we give priority to. Weddings, okay, they are important, but then they should not be reason for people to be milked," he says."I agree, completely. We need weddings and such events, but then we don't have to exaggerate. We can even do it the old fashioned way, hold them at home instead of expensive halls!" I propose.Yes. It's time to rethink our priorities. If we are to develop, then we must put our money where it will bring us and the country development.Moderation in weddings and the like is the key.