Four Nigerians, Don Jazzy, Jidenna, Wizkid and Davido are among Forbes top ten richest African musicians.The artistes came in fourth, sixth, seventh and eighth on the list which was drawn up collating information about their endorsement value, popularity, show rates, sales, awards, YouTube views, newspaper appearance, investment, social media presence and influence among others.The top ten are:1. AKONAkon has over 35 million albums sold worldwide. He has won numerous awards including five Grammy Award nominations and has 45 Billboard Hot 100 songs under his belt. He tops the list according to Forbes Africa.2. BLACK COFFEE, SOUTH AFRICAThe multi-award-winning artist's real name is Nkosinathi Maphumulo. He was born in South Africa's house music province, KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) and raised in the Eastern Cape province, where Nelson Mandela hailed from, before moving back to KZN to study music.3. HUGH MASEKELA, SOUTH AFRICAHugh was born in Witbank, east of Johannesburg. He has released more than 43 albums and performed with Marvin Gaye, Dizzy Gillespie, The Byrds, Fela Kuti, Paul Simon, Stevie Wonder and Miriam Makeba.4. DON JAZZY, NIGERIADon Jazzy is ranked fourth richest in Africa and also first in Nigeria. Like many artists, his real name is Michael Collins Ajereh, and he started playing music as a child in church before moving to the UK to pursue his career.5. TINASHE, ZIMBABWE-AMERICANTinashe was a child model by the age of three. The twenty-four-year-old sang before she could talk and made her first appearance in 2000 in the film Cora Unashamed. Her voice also starred in the cartoon feature film The Polar Express alongside Oscar-winning actor, Tom Hanks.6. JIDENNA, NIGERIAN-AMERICANBy the age of 10, Jidenna Theodore Mobisson knew he wanted to do music but was afraid to tell his father who wanted him to be an engineer. He is ranked sixth according to Forbes Africa.7. WIZKID, NIGERIAWizkid is arguably currently the uncrowned king of African music. Grammy Award-winning artist, Alicia Keys and husband Swizz Beatz, danced to his songs Ojuelegba and Caro, with Keys posting a video on her Instagram account with the caption, "This song makes me happy". Kylie Jenner also posted a video of herself dancing to Wizkid's music on Snapchat.8. DAVIDO, NIGERIADavido has claimed a high status in just five years. He said it was people like P-Square and D'Banj who made him believe this was possible. He became famous for his widely acclaimed 2012 debut album "Omo Baba Olowo".9. SARKODIE, GHANAMichael Owusu Addo started out as an underground rapper and through the help of Duncan Williams, his former manager, his career was launched. Staying true to his identity, he is a big advocate of Azonto, a Ghanaian genre that is said to have been born out of Kpanlogo, a traditional dance.His first single off his fourth album, Mewu, sold almost 4,000 copies on the first day of its release in Ghana. He was also the first Ghanaian to win a BET award.10. OLIVER MTUKUDZI, ZIMBABWEOliver Tuku Mtukudzi has 65 albums under his belt, more than the legendary Michael Jackson and Whitney Houston. It's a remarkable career stretching back 41 years with songs that have enlivened parties all over the world.He is ranked 10th richest musician in Africa.