Although East Africa has considerable diversity and an abundance of music traditions, many of the countries face similar issues.These range from effects of urbanisation to threats of piracy, lack of intellectual property enforcement, to the lack of sector development, a British Council study observes.The regional music industry is underdeveloped and faces severe challenges, beginning with production of new material to developing new audiences, the report titled Scoping the East African Music Sector notes.There are serious issues for musicians in terms of making an income; there are limited opportunities to play live, returns from selling music are low and only a few stars are able to secure corporate sponsors.MAKING A LIVINGThe report says musicians earn their income from playing live shows, selling recorded material and through royalty payments."In East Africa, there are issues in all of these areas, particularly the last one, because there are issues surrounding the enactment and enforcement of copyright legislation, and limited payment and collection of royalties," the report reads.The report observes that there is the "... confusion over who 'owns' what... it is easy to understand why many musicians struggle to make a decent living."According to the report, artistes overwhelmingly rely on live shows."Relying on live shows rather than royalties has a debilitating impact on the industry. Live shows are only viable when the artiste is selling on the airwaves, and that is temporary. Royalty collection bodies are still finding their feet. The laws to support them are very weak and some collectors are corrupt," Ugandan artiste, Rachael Magoola, told The Observer.On his part, the band leader of Ricky Na Marafiki based in Nairobi, Ricky Nanjero, told The Observer, "The artistes have to come together and help one another on how to come up with policies that will help them earn more, not only from live performances."The report released recently was conducted by the Tom Fleming Creative Consultancy based in the UK. On the dangers of a 'producer' composing and arranging the music and playing all the instruments, the band leader of the Nairobi-based Them Mushrooms, John Katana, told The Observer the producer would own the author/composer rights."They get a bigger share of the song's related rights for his performance, while the musician might not be able to create an identity for his music. The musician will definitely earn less than if he took a central role," he said.However, this picture is by no means universal, the report notes."There are great producers in East Africa who are also very good musicians. Using cheap keyboards or MIDI instruments does not necessarily mean bad music. But even if great music is made using this process, it does have repercussions. As this music is usually created alone in the studio, it suffers when performed live due to lack of necessary resources to translate this music for a live band and into an electrifying show."According to the report, good managers are a rare breed; another challenge to the industry. Magoola concurs, saying: "Most managers who get into the music business do so for the sake of getting something to do. Many have no clue what music business management entails and quickly sink with their artistes in tow. Friends or relatives of the artiste tend to take on the role for pomp rather than substance."The report observes the impact of digitisation on both music-making and distribution, as most regulations were passed before the digital revolution."Internationally, downloads are relatively inexpensive and well established, yet the income from sales is largely invisible to artistes in East Africa," it reads."Copyright infringement means the artiste gets very little or nothing compared to what s/he invests in the music. In time, resources to invest further and improve on quality and keeping the visibility fizzle out, and so does the artiste," Magoola said."With the exception of Kenya, the other countries in the region do not have well-established CMOs (collective management organizations), thus their capacity to collect royalties is small. Kenya has three CMOs, but the Music Copyright Society, which is the biggest and oldest, is poorly managed, resulting in endless squabbles with rights owners," Katana said.While collection of royalties is beginning to happen in some countries, enforcement of copyright across the region is poor or non-existent and this, alongside the ease with which it is possible to pirate material, makes for a significant black market economy.MOBILE NETWORK OPERATORSAccording to the report, mobile network operators (MNOs) currently own the fastest-growing distribution channel of music in the region. Artistes are increasingly seeking exposure through MNOs, but this often comes at a cost, as most have to deal with them through content aggregators who bundle games, music and other content together."Nevertheless, many are keen to be present on these platforms; and so, accept the terms. Because intellectual property rights are often unenforced, artistes may not see any payment filtering back to them," the report warns.Nanjero believes the arrangement of MNOs with musicians is a positive sign.He said: "This is a very positive trend because first of all it's a change. Secondly, almost everyone has a mobile phone that ensures that the artiste distributes his or her music widely."But the chief executive officer of the Uganda Performing Right Society (UPRS), James Wasula, differs."The problem with our Ugandan musicians is their naivety. We advise them but they think they are going to be known through the mobile network operators. So, they don't look at their income but their popularity. That is where the telecoms take advantage of them," he said. "A few of them that have realized the importance of earning royalties have come to us to sort out that problem. We haven't implemented this because we are still gathering a critical mass to protect their rights and negotiate with the telecoms."IDENTITY AND TRADITIONAll of the countries surveyed, except Ethiopia, are engaging a lively, ongoing debate about the identity of their music and culture more broadly. These deliberations centre on the usage and interpretation of 'traditional' and 'local' and the integration of diversity into 'national' cultures.As the region becomes more visible to the world, East Africans are positioning themselves. However, Katana contends: "There is yet to evolve a distinct East African music identity, be it Kenyan, Tanzanian or Ugandan."But Magoola notes the music of any community is a product of its history. When the Arab traders influenced the coast, we got the taarab genre. Congolese influenced the Ugandan and Kenyan sounds with their rumba, just like the slaves in the US created jazz and negro spirituals, among others.Ethiopia (aside from its love for reggae) has maintained its own unique repertoire and a traditional feel to its music."This musical distinctness as well as the existence of a professional group of musicians to play it, has led to a stronger international profile," the report observes.However, the report points to many positive signs. There is a new generation of entrepreneurs and arts activists keen to build successful music enterprises.There is a growing live music scene across the region, particularly in the major cities, offering more opportunities for musicians to play. There is increasing confidence among artistes and a desire to develop internationally.The report notes that the international cultural profile of East Africa has been much lower than West and Southern Africa's, but this is changing, with international attention focusing on the arts from the region as the countries' economies grow.The author works with The East African newspaper