An upcoming music artist simply identified as T Shine Sisi Eko, thursday said he will embark on a killing spree if arrested notorious kidnapper, Chukwudumeje Onwuamadike alias Evans, was sentenced to death.The staunch Biafran advocate in a series of vituperations on Facebook, was reacting to the signing into law of the death sentence for kidnappers by the Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode.In a post that has gone viral on different social media platforms, the Enugu-state born self-acclaimed artiste said although he does not know Evans personally, he just does not want him dead either.Although much about his identity and his real names are not clear, the Love, Music and Entertainment (LME) artist, has a music album titled 'Grace', produced by Jamzeal M and M by Mobass.He said, "Nigeria is so useless. I don't know this man but I don't just want him dead. And if he mistakenly gets killed by the stupid Nigeria government, I swear me T SHINE SISI EKO will replace him."I must kill uncountable souls. Bet me on that.Is Evans more deadly than Kabiru Sokoto or other politicians? From all his confession, was anybody killed?"They should free him! Come to think of it, it's the useless one-sided government of zoo that turned him to a criminal overnight by seizing his container."Putting up a picture of one of Evans' victims he further wrote, "Look at this idiot claiming that Evans kidnapped him, enemy of progress."We are still praying for Biafra to come. Why can't defend ourselves? Foolish people. At least Evans has helped so many people both old and young.Nigeria is never a good country. And we Igbo's are not qualified to be a country until we learn how to defend ourselves."Evans did nothing, I mean nothing. After all he has helped so many souls with the kidnapping business. Who have you helped?"Apparently, his ideologies to make money isn't far away from that of Evans as he had on June 14 posted this: "Death is better than poverty. Conditional wealth is better than poverty."Blood money is better than poverty. Get rich or die trying. Big money on my mind. Poverty is a disease. It's a curse."However, despite concerted efforts in some quarters to secure his pardon, the suspect in an exclusive interview with THISDAY, said he must face his charges given the gravity of the wrongs he committed.In the interview held in Lagos, Evans while responding to reactions that a group of Nigerians were clamouring for his release, expressed shock at the news.He said, "I had no idea people are canvassing for my release. All I have to say is that God bless them but I committed an offence. I know that now am I deeply sorry."But despite my remorse, I know I must face my judgement. I hurt a lot of people even though I have asked for their forgiveness. So even those calling for my death are justified and I still pray that God will bless them."