Uganda has hosted a couple of superstar deejays like Benny D (Akon's DJ), DJ Babey Drew (Chris Brown's), DJ 4our 5ive (Lil Wayne's tour DJ), but none has captivated the audience and left many talking points like Diplo's performance at Golf Course hotel last Friday.One thing for sure is that the show was legit and there were no upcoming singers lip-syncing to their own songs before the main act. It was an all-DJs' affair.For the DJs that played before him and those in attendance, it must have looked and sounded like a master class of sorts. If it did not, then we still have a long way to go if we did not pick a lesson or two from the Grammy award-winning DJ/producer/rapper/singer/songwriter.What stands out immediately by looking at his credentials is that he has taken time to develop other skill sets that he fused into his deejaying.According to www.pigeonsandplanes.com, Diplo knew he wanted to become a singer but the lack of skills dictated he had to do it the non-traditional way."I learned how to make music backwards. I never learned how to play instruments, but I learned my scales and my keys from sampling and chopping things up," he is quoted as saying.Uganda has DJs who have been at it for decades and some have won every local award available, but that is it. There is need to evolve beyond the man who has been behind the turntables for eons. Getting more influences such as production impacts the way a DJ plays, which eventually becomes their signature.The most famous DJs in Kampala are those that loop hit after hit, but it has not taken their careers that far. They still play for the same old bars weekend in, weekend out.Dark Meme, the DJ many did not know until Friday, has branded himself the king of EDM and no wonder he will be opening for Diplo while on the African leg of his tour. When will a hit-songs DJ get that opportunity?Which hit songs will he play to a crowd in Johannesburg? Certainly not the same playlist he has been using every Saturday at Legends bar.Crowd engagement is key.Of late, every DJ from Aludah to BK or Crim, are gripping the microphone and trying to hype their crowds. But is it a piece of cake for every DJ?Even for a star of Diplo's caliber, he knew when to bring on the hype man, so he travelled with Walshy Fire. Together, they made a great combination for they are in the same outfit - Major Lazer.They engaged the crowd. They stood on the setup table. They changed into Uganda Cranes jerseys. In a nutshell, they had the audience eating out of their palms.In the end, it was quite an experience for the showgoers. DJ Aludah had started a nice combination with Mr Hypeman but it seems to have died last year.The crowd engagement, hype, a signature style, using other influences and skill sets like production, evolving and growing as more than just a disk jockey but entertainer, are some of the lessons from that Diplo master class.I hope you took notes, Ugandan DJs.