My friend Imam Kasozi is a renowned public intellectual and community worker. A development anthropologist and university professor, Kasozi is often involved in humanitarian work such as helping disaster-affected communities in different parts of the country whenever calamity strikes.He is also a budding environment activist. However, this imam of a local mosque in Buziga-Mawanga is mostly renowned for his eloquent, fierce and consistent critique of the government of President Museveni. For this, he has won admirers from both government and opposition, and the public more generally.Ahead of the 2016 elections, Imam Kasozi received delegation after delegation asking him to stand for parliament. Many, arguably well-meaning individuals from across the political divide, pleaded with him to stand as this would give parliament (more) credibility.They argued for the dearth of critical and articulate voices in parliament, noting that his entry would add charisma, purpose and eloquence to this rather haunted House. Some even offered to fund his entire campaign. No amount of persuasion would move the undeniably proud imam.Kasozi, as parting shots, often challenged his suitors that were parliament to reduce to 50 MPs, maybe then he would consider standing. By implication, he rudely reminded his visitors that, going just by numbers, parliament had been rendered useless (History is replete with evidence).Although many Ugandan parliamentarians are nothing but fortune-hunters, I am at pains understanding the motivation for several otherwise well-meaning persons abandoning equally important nation-building sectors/professions for Parliament in the name of contributing to the country.Journalists, medical doctors, artistes, lawyers, university professors and successful businessmen have (or attempted) abandoned their professions for parliament. During the 2016 election, an average of four persons contested for each of the 435 seats in parliament.This makes 1,740 candidates in all. It is worth noting that only persons that have had stellar careers, and built public profiles offer themselves as candidates for parliament. Aftermaths of elections often leave losing candidates devastated.Indebted, frustrated and humiliated, election-losers painstakingly return to their pre-election oomph, which means, the country may not necessarily lose them but their cutting-edge is lost.There is no problem with anyone abandoning their professions for parliamentary politics. All professions are important in the country's central legislative assembly. My problem is with the confidence professionals have invested in the present parliament to justify jostling to join it.Under the present political dispensation, Uganda's parliament is nothing but - institutionally and discursively - a haunted house filled with loud barking dogs!Any serious professional joining parliament is wasted resource. (Except of course, if their stated ambition is to easily make money as Lubaga South MP Kato Lubwama proclaimed some time ago.I strongly believe, for example, that Semujju Ibrahim Nganda contributed more to this country as a political reporter and editor of The Observer than he has done as a member of Parliament. Surely, Prof Gilbert Bukenya the medic was more valuable to Uganda than Bukenya the vice president and member of parliament combined. This list is long.This brings me to newly-elected Member of Parliament Robert Kyagulanyi Ssentamu, most famously known as Bobi Wine. As an artiste, cultural icon and political-economic activist, Bobi Wine was truly - as his landslide electoral victory confirms - an organic intellectual who ruled through art and music.Writing in The Observer in January 2016 "Bobi Wine's Beautiful Music Coup", I likened him to to Nigeria's legendary singer and activist, Fela Anikulapo Kuti, for fearlessly responding to the challenges of the time: "When it was HIV/Aids, he gave us Mwekuume; when we debated gender equality, he gave us Adam Ne Kaawa and Taata w'Abaana... when KCCA became fanatical, he chided its executive director with Tugambire Ku Jennifer.On our precarious political-social terrain, he gave us Time Bomb, Kiwani, and Obululu Tebutwawula. He now has Dembe to counter election violence and also envision a new future." This analysis was long.The picture that emerges is that Bobi Wine has been key in mobilizing the consciousness of the downtrodden in addition to being their popular voice. This is his timeless and will perhaps be his most valuable contribution to Uganda.But like many who discarded their earlier professed roles for parliament, I see darkness in Bobi Wine's entry into that House. It is unlikely he will make any recognizable national-wide impact the way he did as a singer.After a short while, one quickly realizes that, besides the humongous pay-cheques, the present parliament - oversized and overpaid - is simply a ghost-house. Imam Kasozi was right. Unless, of course, there's a Bobi Wine masterclass in store.The author is a PhD fellow at Makerere Institute of Social Research.