Known as the capital of Africa the second most populated nation next to Nigeria, Ethiopia is often cited as a land of bread and honey and a must visit in a lifetime. In a country which stayed true to its culture and history, there is an abundance of sights, bites and nature's extravaganza distinctively blend in over 80 ethnics with their own delicacies and tradition that will wow your stay in Ethiopia.As the gateway to nature's extreme creations, Ethiopia draw domestic and foreign visitors around the world. The 27th largest country in the world has all the refreshing charm and glamour that is only found in Ethiopia. This East African precious nation has quickly become the favourite for a true African adventure. The country offers great hospitality, street celebrations, and loads of sightseeing for adventurers. It has a serious of hidden escapade opportunities in which every corner you turn to there is a lot to admire. From remarkable exotic destinations to crystal clear beaches and budget friendly and luxuries options without breaking the bank; Travel Agencies have recommendations for any and every type of travelling plan you might have in mind.Ethiopia is fondly regarded as the most unique and beautiful nation housing the world's amazing nature and ancient treasures. If you admire a classic hike there is a mountain known as roof of Africa at Siemen Mountain and see the wildlife up close or you want to dip into at the healing naturally heated springs or you want to explore the ancient castles and rock hewn churches Ethiopia will never let you down. While you explore the clean fresh air and the warm sunshine keeps you refreshed and energized.Truly Ethiopia is a country which does not need introduction. This highland country is one of the most popular place in Africa where every month is a peak season due to its sunshine and the best part is it always comes cheap if you are coming through Jumia Travel. Captivating ancient architectures and obelisks are present at every city and town of the country. The place of great food and ancient treasures legacy expands throughout the country. The colourful dishes offer mouthwatering endless flavours from the several cultural cuisines which perfected centuries of spices and grate dishes.If you want to experience the Ethiopian hospitality starting from up in the air be sure to board at the famous Ethiopian airlines. The airlines is not only safe and land you in a comfortable slides on the runways but also it allows you to experience luxury and comfort serving you famous chefs dishes cooking inside the aircraft's. The airline invites you to enjoy local and international dishes while you relax in your comfy sit enjoying entertainment at your exclusive screen. Do not blame yourself if you do not want to get off the plane just remind yourself that you have just began exploring the amazing Ethiopian adventure.If you want to get it all together and organize your thoughts on how to explore the plenty adventurous locations of Ethiopia while having the best time of your life, head to the luxuries and comfortable and best part affordable accommodation facilities. Truly all this exciting things of Ethiopia will allow you to experience the adventure you have been waiting for long.