The S.O.C duo have become a household name much beloved for their contemporary brand of Gospel music with a heavy vernacular influence infused with an infectious youthful energy. Made up of Njoseh and Mugikuyu, the two met at Kahawa West's Deliverance Church in 2010 where they were part of an award winning dance outfit The Saintz.During their time in the dance troupe, they danced in some of the biggest shows and featured in music videos for top Kenyan artistes. It was then they decided form a singing group that incorporated singing into the dance routines.Njoseh whose real name is Joseph Ndaka Musyoki grew up in Kahawa West, Nairobi where he attended while Mugikuyu whose real name is Amos Kimani Muthoni grew up at South B where they attended school in their respective neighbourhoods. They told www.nation.co.ke of their musical journey that began with three but now has two members and has so far produced hits like 'Kakitu', 'Kataa', 'Zongelela', 'Aje', 'Bla Bla Bla' among others.How do you define your sound?Our style of music is afro-pop .We fuse the traditional rap with an array of trendy pop influences to come up with an S.O.C sound.The biggest mistake anyone would make is to box us into a specific genre, over the years we have kept re-inventing our style with every release. For example 'Kakitu" was a breed between hiphop and bhangra; 'Kataa' was an afro-pop with a prominent chant-like flow; 'Mukutu' had a majorly a luganda vibe while 'Aje"is Kapuka.Who were your earliest musical influences?We have had several notable influences. For one Kris Erroh did play a major role in helping Mugikuyu find the Kikuyu rap as his niche skill which has become the S.O.C calling card that makes us instantly recognizable.Groove awards have also been an influence to be honest, and that is because they act as the pat in the back for the hard work we put into the music. A little appreciation goes a long way.The pioneers of the industry did so much to shape the industry and if there is something we long to leave behind is a legacy that will live on and inspire musicians for years to come.Our main inspiration however, is our everyday life experiences, we sing a lot about our life experiences so when you listen to an S.O.C song you do know S.O.C in the raw un-edited version.We are an open book.What have been the highlights of your career?To be honest we have had so many moments that are amazing. There is the glitz and the glamour that is the awards we have received at home and in other countries.There have been sold-out shows we have headlined and performed at which that have been attended by over 40,000 as well travels to exotic destinations that comes with the territory, but if we are completely honest, the special moments have been in the little things, when a random fan walks up to us and says how a song changed their life or when people we have never met before spend their time and money just to come and hang out or when school children stop us in the streets to collectively sing our songs to us.Those moments are the ones we could never trade for anything.Who have you worked with in the Kenyan music industry and how has been the experience?Very exciting, we have worked with really gifted producers and they are nothing short of brilliant minds. Just to mention but afew: Majic Mike, Sounds of Carena, Saint P, Gideon Kimanzi, Vicky Pon Dis, D-King from Uganda, Starbiz, Allan Ace, Othole and many others who lent their awesome talents to us.That is why our music is always putting on a new fresh element. The process of production has been different for every single one of our songs, that why we get as excited as the fans when we put out something new. We surprise ourselves.Who have you enjoyed working with most?Gideon Kimanzi. He has produced our soon-dropping single and the chemistry for this project was so amazing.What lessons have you learnt during your time in the music industry?We have definitely learnt from whence to draw inspiration for our music, we have learnt that what we sing is an extension of what is going on in our lives and we have learnt to rely on God and trust in His plan for us.We have also learnt that the music is greater than we are because our listeners interact with the music when they wake up, as they eat right before they sleep and the lesson we take is that there is more to the words we sing and the melodies we create, they touch lives and most importantly they are our gifts back to God and being so should be handled with care.Have you made new friends since going pro?Yes, most definitely so and some in high places too. The gift takes you before kings. On the flip-side we have lost quite a few along the way. As you grow you learn to differentiate the real ones from the fake ones and you start to crave meaningful interactions as opposed to having many fake friends.What was the single most defining moment in your lives that shapes you as a artistes?When we went from a trio to a duo. Sometime last year but one we became a duo. One of us decided on a different career path. So now it's just the two of us Njoseh and Mugikuyu.Things got real after that, we were handling a lot of heat from fans and the press from all over East Africa and at some point we actually turned down the interviews and TV appearances just so we could deal with the changes ourselves.This had a huge effect on us a group and as a brand because brands take a lot to build and when you have a drastic shift on your brand you get to have setbacks and whole new challenges but by the grace of God we are much better now and the future has nothing but amazing surprises for us and our fans alike. The duo S.O.C is definitely one you should keep a close eye on.Are you dating or seeing anyone?Well one of us is dating, it's actually still kind of new and we wouldn't like to jinx it. The drama has always been there and will always be there because of the scrutiny artistes go through on a daily basis.True love survives it.When does your album drop? Where can fans get it?We have an album out and it's on iTunes , Amazon, Spotify and Google Play. The next album is currently in its creation stage and we will definitely let you know all about it on a later date.Is the music paying the bills?Yes it does. We live off our music and we are living well.Sadly though in Kenya the bigger chunk of the music money does not get to the artiste but instead is pocketed by middle men and greedy business men and really it's just the love of the music that has kept most of your favourite musicians in the game this far.The future is looking up though, the government just made a music policy the other day and all the changes in the copyright bodies is a sure indicator that better days are ahead.What are the challenges of working as a group?Working as a group is crazy but once you learn to strike a balance it's the most fun way to do music. Think of it as two of your best artistes put together, there is no limit to the things they can achieve together.The Kenyan gospel industry is seemingly getting more artistes blurring the line between 'secular' and gospel music whose motivations are unclear. What is your take on this?There are brilliant artistes on their own who have made major strides for the gospel industry as you know it. About blurred lines it completely depends on how you view life. What we can tell you is that everyone needs to work out their own salvation with fear and trembling because at the end we individually answer to God.Last word to your fans?Buy Kenyan music, support Kenyan musicians, attend Kenyan gigs and play Kenyan music. That is how we all grow.