With a number of junkies rooting for Juventus in the Uefa Champions League final against Real Madrid, many were left wondering what hit them...Kiyonga: So, where are the Juventus fans?Bamulanzeki: Man, I was worried about Juventus, especially when they scored that fantastic equalizer.Kiyonga: That was not going to happen, when Zidane was on the bench.Zziwa: Ha, you are going to talk Zidane until kingdom come.Kiyonga: My friend, Zidane is Mr. Champions League.Zziwa: How many has he won, that we have not seen any other do?Kiyonga: By the way, Zidane is the first one to win back-to-back Champions League titles.Nsimbe: That is definitely a landmark achievement, as it is for Cristiano Ronaldo, that he has won four Champions League titles.Mugalu: He cannot stop scoring.Nsimbe: But I am sure Kiyonga, because of his hate, cannot acknowledge that Ronaldo is great.Kiyonga: No. For me Casemiro scored the best goal of the night.Nsimbe: Not Mario Mandzukic?Zziwa: Bambi Kiyonga has a problem. Because he hates Ronaldo, he cannot appreciate his talent.Kiyonga: People, I am free to like who I want.Nsimbe: A true football person will not let their sentiment blind them. Ronaldo is great whether you like him or not.Kiggundu: I agree. Kiyonga is blinded by the links Ronaldo has with Man- Utd.Kiyonga: And I do not know why these Man-Utd people push this Ronaldo man down our throats.Kiggundu: But whatever the case, Kiyonga, Ronaldo is a great player. He has proved that.Kiyonga: Well, he is not to me.Nsimbe: Yet, I am sure you will say that Kylian Mbappe is a top player.Kiyonga: Of course Mbappe is a good player.Zziwa: To you, everything French is good; especially when they have played for Arsenal.Bamulanzeki: So, this Kiyonga man supports Real Madrid, but dislikes Ronaldo? How interesting! You cannot say he has no skill, after he scored and created so many goals.Kiggundu: I think Ronaldo does not have the same skill as Lionel Messi.Zziwa: I have learnt to appreciate both Messi and Ronaldo, as great players.Spin: You people can continue dis- cussing Ronaldo while we celebrate a twelfth Champions League title. Arsenal can talk to us nicely, and we lend them one.Nsimbe: Ye ssebo.Spin: Actually our trophy cabinet is bulging and has run out of space. Arsenal can help us keep some.Sebugwawo: So, when people visit Arsenal, they can think they also won the 'Big Ears'.......hahahaha.