GLEN STEPHEN KARAMAGI is a sports producer, presenter and analyst at Uganda Broadcasting Corporation (UBC). The proud Mubiito [royal clan from Tooro] talked about his intentions to retire from sports in favour of conservation, plus the woman of his life in an interview with Quick Talk last Friday at the Ibamba restaurant in Kamwokya.Retiring from sports to conservation? Two different worlds!For the one year that I have hosted the show [Conserve Our Heritage on UBC, Mondays 9pm to 10pm], I have met conservationists who have made me fall in love with nature.Sports and conservation are alike [Huh?! One stomps on the grass, the other nurtures it, from Quick Talk's point of view... ] They are both too addictive. You easily get carried away and lost in them. [Oh. Okay.]Speaking of getting carried away, have you ever been carried away by a woman?[Laughing:] Of course. [Then proudly:] And I am married to her. We have three children. I don't like disclosing her name to the media but I can tell you her pet name. It is Akiiki.So, would you gladly wash Akiiki's underwear?No. She has never given them to me to wash. She does not even allow me to wash my own. I have actually never washed any underwear of mine since I met her.I don't even make the bed. I was always bad at it [making beds] even before I met her. She takes very good care of me [clearly she does!] Oh, she even [holding out his well-manicured hands] clips my nails.What?! Isn't she spoiling you just a little too much?No, my mum used to actually clip my nails even when I was in secondary school. [Karamagi was born to the late Geoffrey Isingoma and Deborah Nyanjura.]She always complained that I cut my nails badly and surprisingly, when I met Akiiki, she also had the same complaint about my nail-cutting skills; so, she is the one that does it for me.That is so sweet. And what sweet things do you do for her in return?Many. But her favourite was me proposing to her on camera. UBC was having an end-of-year party on December 28, 2011 and before the cameras, I went down on bended knee and officially proposed to her with a ring, she was totally surprised. That footage is in the UBC archives.Wow! And the wedding?I am still working on it. [Oh? I thought you said you were married to her?] I will wed her, but I still maintain that marriage is a matter of the heart, and not a ceremony.Respect and trust are more important to me. I have seen many marriages crumble even when there has been a massive wedding simply because there is no commitment.Well, moving on... Tell me about your educational background.I went to Ibuga primary school in Kasese, Bombo Army SS, Kololo SS, Nakasongola Army and Excel high school. I then went to Mubs for a diploma in Business Administration and later, I did a bachelor's in the same discipline at Mubs still. I also did a sports science course at Kampala University.And how old are you?I don't usually want people to know my age. I want them to think I am older. Anyway, I will be 34 in December. But I must say I have really seen the world.I took up responsibility when I was young. I left home to look for work when I was 20 years old. I did university while working. I had my first child at 25 and I took care of both my baby and fianc&eacute;e. I had a boutique and, at times, I personally peddled the clothes to make sure I provided for my family.Wow! By the way, you don't speak like most Batooro I know. You are fast.[Sports] commentary. It has changed the way I speak so much that people don't think I am from that land [Tooro]. Sports analysis and commentary make you think, talk and act so fast because of the pace of the games; for a comment to be valid, it must be spot-on.Finally, it is just the two of you in a lift and the other person passes air. What would you do?It is normal. But I would laugh! I would really want to see that person's face aftewards. Would he/she look shy or indifferent? It is just like walking with someone and they fall. It is normal and actually sad but most people laugh before helping you up.