Religious leaders last week took over the negotiations to end the three-month doctors' strike with the undertaking to use soft-power to melt down the souls and get the protagonists to a reasonable agreement.And true, their negotiations yielded three documents: Return-to-work formula; recognition agreement between the doctors' union and counties; and recognition of the contested collective bargaining agreement.For a moment on Tuesday, it appeared they were making a breakthrough -- what was remaining was to get concurrence from the governors.Indeed, they made a submission to the court that they needed a few days to fine tune the agreements. But the efforts have now come to naught. President Uhuru Kenyatta and the governors led by their chairman, Mr Peter Munya, decided to change tack.The government withdrew a new enhanced pay offer of 50 per cent - previously it was 40 per cent - and directed doctors to resume duty immediately.Consequently, counties were directed to discipline doctors who fail to go back to work. Thus, the national and county governments threw out the negotiations and resorted to high-handedness to break up the strike.But this is not a civil way of resolving the matter. Forcing doctors back to work will not end the problem. In fact, it could be counter-productive. Nothing is as bad as having disgruntled doctors taking care of lives. It has been three painful months for most Kenyans who depend on public health facilities.Doctors have held all to ransom and inasmuch they have a legitimate case, they have overstepped their bounds. In military science, retreat is a smart strategy to reorganise and draw up a new plan of action.They squarely failed to consider when to retreat or advance. It has been one-way -- shoot and shoot -- which has cost them public goodwill.What the government and the doctors have done is to destroy public health for good; things will never be the same. The faith organisations should have been allowed to conclude the negotiations and bring the dispute to an amicable end.