Zimbabwe Achievers Awards (ZAA) International has announced the inaugural edition of the ZAA Australia set for July this year and nominations are currently being called.People can nominate their choices through the website www.zimachievers.com/ausCategories are varied to cater for all major economic areas where Zimbabwean nationals may be working, operating businesses or other related organisations. These include areas of business, community, arts and people's choice award.To show appreciation for their local hosts or adopted homes, the event series also has in its categories a nomination (Friends of Zimbabwe Award) reserved for non-Zimbabwean people or organisations that show commitment to assist or support Zimbabwean nationals abroad."Zimbabweans of all races based in and around Australia are being called to be part of this great event, which has since proven to be worthwhile for its provision of a valuable international networking and entertainment platform", said ZAA Australia organisers said.The Australian edition is once again sponsored by Steward Bank and EcoCash Diaspora, which has extended its working relationship with the brand after initially aligning with the South African and USA events.Zimbabwe Achievers Awards International has turned into a much-coveted global brand, testified to by the spreading of its tentacles and reputation across all corners of the world where nationals from the southern African country are concentrated.It has its humble beginnings in 2010 when Conrad Mwanza introduced the concept to the world in the UK, before its current world wide penetration and presence.Meanwhile ZAA UK Gala Dinner will be held on (6th) May this year, the brand will celebrate its seventh edition, marking a milestone never before imagined in the annals of identifying and celebrating successful and influential internationally based Zimbabweans and their businesses. Organisers have announced that tickets for this event are nearly sold out, www.zimachievers.com/ukZimbabwe Achievers Awards International has held successful editions of the annual series of events in the UK, South Africa and the USA.To nominate please visit http://www.zimachievers.com/aus1. Business of the Year Award2. Female Entrepreneur of the Year Award3. Male Entrepreneur of the Year Award4. Professional of the Year AwardCommunity:5. Community Organization of the Year Award6. Community Champion of the Year AwardThe Arts, Culture and Sports:7. Outstanding Achievement in Music Award8. Sports Personality of the Year Award9. Personality of the Year AwardSpecial Category:11. Lifetime Outstanding Contribution Award12. Young Achievers Award13. Academic Excellence of the Year Award14. People's Choice Award15. Friends of Zimbabwe Award