The recently-concluded sixth edition of Doadoa emphasized the reality of an existing, paying market for East African performing arts.At a fee of Shs 20,000 per day or Shs 10,000 for just the showcases in the evenings, decent numbers still made it to the two workshops and 13 conferences alongside three nights of evening performance showcase from six African countries."Arts and cultural programming costs money. And the way for Ugandans and East Africans to support the industry is to willingly pay a gate collection to the product being served," Bayimba Director, Faisal Kiwewa, said.A variation of the Acholi tribal dance motifs and musical patterns by Orupap band from South Sudan had me climbing over crates to catch their performance on the opening night.Bernard and Alfred from Burundi, who have founded a Burundian orchestra, performed with instruments fashioned from bows, arrows and calabashes to give off sounds alluding to organ and violin resonance, yet not quite.Of the eight Ugandan artistes programmed, six have been through the Pearl Rhythm stage coach program - a three-month mentoring workshop for evolving musicians run by Jude Mugerwa and Suzan Kerunen.Geoffrey Mutinda and Nina Ogot from Kenya performed exotically Kenyan, while Mwsanu Gogo Vibes and Cocodo bands from Tanzania brought inspirations of reggae, kata dance and Kiswahili romanticisms to their performances. The Components, also from Rwanda, fused the nanga with a female rapper who danced in typical Rwandan style to sounds mixed by a DJ."People only see the five or 10-minute performance, [not] realizing how much work has gone into its programming and creation," Jude Mugerwa said.For instance, Haka Mukiga was invited to audition for Doadoa by Herman Kabubi, the director of programs at Bayimba Foundation, who had watched him perform at Yella cultural festival earlier this year.Yella is organized and curated by Mame N'Diak, a Senegalese diplomat and artiste based in Uganda. N'Diak in turn, had watched Mukiga perform at Pearl Rythmn festival. And the path continues on backwards to Milege festival and beyond in the making of Mukiga.Uganda museum, in its modesty, played amicable host to the day programs while a new hybrid location for the evening showcases was discovered in Diners Lounge, Bukoto for the evening showcases. Other acts included Afrie, Derrick Komakech, Trezzor band, Charmant Mushaga, and Cindy Sanyu.The Global Music Campus workshop had mixed reception during their 'Making Music Education More Relevant In Order to Develop a Professional Music Industry' conference panel session.Prisca Ojwang, one of the afternoon showcase artistes and panelist, rejected the idea that African musicians and educators need a European curriculum in order to value our own. On the other hand, Natalie Lukkenaer from Kenya wondered why African indigenous musical language was being muted under the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).Others shared how Doadoa has opened international doors for their music. Jemimah Sanyu aka Stage Gladiator is presently booked for about 200 shows through the USA in 2018. Sanyu is managed by Stefanie Schumann, an international artiste manager based in Munich, Germany."My first plane experience to a country outside of Uganda was to Ethiopia after Doadoa 2015. I have travelled more since. Even my value as an artiste has changed. I demand higher pay, and get better pay that I would never get if I was still the Ugandan 'celeb' only," she said.Luc Mayitoukou, an event organizer and talent scout based in Senegal, immediately signed Lily Kadima for a showcase later this year after her dramatic dance-theatre and music spectacle at Doadoa. Her language of association and performance is Luganda blended with English.And when all was sung and done, Faisal declined the audience's demands for more. It was time for the after- party, where Ruth Daniel, a cultural producer and activist, demonstrated creativity in conflict by mixing music from the war-torn studios of Sudan, Angola, Congo and beyond to speak music as the only peace.The author is a creative artiste, producer and director.