There is a new addition to Africa&rsquo;s busiest air transport hub, O.R. Tambo International Airport near Johannesburg: the continent&rsquo;s first airport-based brewery. Airport Craft Brewers is a reflection of South Africa's burgeoning independent beer sector, with growing numbers of beer drinkers not satisfied with industrial, mass-produced beverages.The hectic international arrivals terminal at the O.R. Tambo airport. Not far from here, businessmen in smart suits lean on a marble bar counter, sipping black and copper-colored beers.A tall man in his 40s, in a white lab coat, zips between big, shiny, silver tanks, monitoring the temperature of his latest brew.Phumelelo Marali learned to make beer from one of South Africa&rsquo;s master brewers, Lex Mitchell.&ldquo;He always said to me that, &lsquo;Phumi, it will take you two years to be exact, to learn how to brew beer,&rsquo; which is now in a [proper] brew house. It took me six months. But it took me about four years to understand the technicality behind it,&rdquo; said Marali.Marali prefers brewing, and drinking, sweeter beers, like his dark malt porter.&ldquo;Roasted kind of toffee notes, that is what you get from a porter; chocolaty, and some people in their nose, they pick up coffee,&rdquo; he said.He also makes blonde lager, German-style wheat beer, and Irish red ale.The brewery owners decided to make all the beer at the airport so customers could see the process firsthand and to ensure a &ldquo;fresher&rdquo; taste. The brewery turns out about 20,000 liters a week.Marali says it is great to be one of South Africa&rsquo;s few black beer brewers, and to be at the forefront of the country&rsquo;s craft beer revolution.A decade ago, there were six craft beer makers in South Africa. Now, there are about 200, with the artisanal sector having captured almost one-percent of the nation&rsquo;s massive beer market.The sector remains dominated by South African Breweries, one of the world&rsquo;s biggest brewers and part of the multinational beer behemoth, Anheuser-Busch InBev. But economic analysts say craft brewers like Marali are successfully carving out a niche in the local South African market.The airport supplies a constant flow of customers.Most of his clients though, are South Africans, like James Nkuma, holding a golden beverage in the bar area.&ldquo;It is a blonde [lager]. I love, I love it; I enjoy each and every second of it. It is an easy to drink beer. It is light, not hard like I need to drink and drink and get drunk; no,&rdquo; he said.Marali&rsquo;s also training the next generation of young brewers, like Sibusiso Khumalo.&ldquo;Calculations, what you have to put in, the right recipe; the temperatures. The whole process takes one month,&rdquo; said Khumalo.But as Marali says "good things come to those who wait.&rdquo;