Tanzanian superstar Diamond Platnumz has been long reputed to be a talented singer, performer and dancer, but also big-headed.When he was booked for Koroga Festival and subsequently offered to us on #theTrend, we knew what to expect. After all, we first met him on the show in August 2013, when he performed in the city and suffice it to say that it had all the excitement of a tooth removal.So when he and his entourage rolled up a full half hour early at the University of Nairobi where we were broadcasting from last Friday, we were pleasantly surprised. He was at his most charming, keeping the energetic campus crowd entertained with zingers and one-liners that endeared him to them.He just launched a song by the newest artiste, Lava Lava, in his growing 51-employee WCB Wasafi label."Siwezi kusema eti ni kwamba nina uwezo mkubwa sana wa kifedha au eti nina akili sana lakini support ninayopewa na watu ndio imenifanya niweze kufikia hapa (I can't say that I have the greatest financial might or the best brains but the support I get from people is what has brought me this far)," he said.He laid out his guiding philosophy with the conviction and clarity of someone who had the benefit of learning from experience and finding their place in the world."WCB doesn't just belong to Diamond. It is about young people with a dream and that is why I keep tapping youth from the streets and showcasing their talent so that if God helps them, they can also be successful. It is because I believe that if I hadn't been helped along the way, I wouldn't be where I am, so I'm helping everyone."The rough English translation doesn't do the original Swahili justice but that is the general concept of why he does what he does.LIVING LARGEViewers at home were just as impressed by the older, wiser Naseeb Abdul Juma as I was speaking to him. Evidently, he is no longer the dramatic 23-year-old who we met on the show the first time. He has undergone something of a temperamental transformation over the last four years, partly attributable to becoming a husband and father.Still one of East Africa's biggest names in music and a solidly bankable cultural export, the bongo flava star is mellowing as he approaches his 30s. He asked the students to be creative, regardless of whatever professional course they were pursuing."I'm not that well educated myself, I only went as far as Form Four" he said in a moment of immense self-awareness. "But I'm here because of the creativity I have. If you're a lawyer here, how would you convince me to hire you to represent me?"That a famously difficult artiste has the presence of mind for some serious introspection is disarming in itself, but when the same musician is aware of the quicksand on which his career is based, it is almost unsettling."Every right thinking man must be afraid of the future because they don't know what tomorrow portends. Because I am afraid for my future and afraid to fail, I have to save up for tomorrow and assist other people because you don't know who will assist you tomorrow," he said.It is a sentiment already expressed in his song, Utanipenda? (Will You Love Me?), in which he muses about how his life would change if he didn't have his current fame and fortune. Nearly 10 million people have watched the music video and he says it is wildly popular in East Africa where the idiomatic Swahili is easily understood.Not that Diamond is all humility and 20/20 hindsight, he remains the fast-lane living, top-billing superstar millions of fans know and love. Asked why he wears so much "bling", what with the ostentatious gold chains and rings, he shot back: "I'm a platinum, I have to shine!"On why he seems to live such a glamorous life on social media, it is all part of the package. "When it comes to social media, you have to show those things because that is how you can get respect but as a celebrity you can't be fake," the teetotaller explains. "And that's the thing about Zari (his wife); we are trying our level best, even if we are eating ugali. I grew up in poverty so I'm not afraid of poverty but what I show you is what I have."Thanks to the flexibility of live TV, we allowed the interview to run much longer than we had planned as we became fascinated by a man we thought we knew. In the eyes of many, he gained new respect by disabusing them of the "diva" branding he has worn so long. He is no longer a diamond in the rough and if he can mature, maybe there's hope for some notoriously haughty but less accomplished Kenyan artistes.