WelcomeGood Afternoon and welcome to CCA's Annual Membership MeetingIf I haven't yet had a chance to say so personally, thank you for coming and for supporting the Corporate Council on Africa.This presentation is an opportunity for me to tell you what my vision is for the organization and about some new initiatives we have been working on.But it's also an opportunity for me to hear from you, our members, and begin a conversation about where CCA is headed.Why CCA's work is so importantAs I make this presentation, the one thing I would like you to think about is what CCA can do for you and your business.My personal, and very ambitious goal for this organization, is for CCA to be the most valuable resource for companies and organizations doing business in AfricaI'll start with a story: I was in Mozambique on November 8th &ndash; the day of the U.S. Presidential elections &ndash; when I got a call very early in the morning Maputo time that I had been selected by CCA to be its next CEO.&nbsp; It was too early to know the results, but as I traveled from Mozambique to Lesotho, I learned that our next President would be Donald Trump.There are quite a few things that make CCA a unique leader in the U.S. and on the continent on the increasingly important U.S.-Africa business relationship.&nbsp;What CCA Can Do for You?The services CCA provide fall under three broad categories: Access, Connections, and Insight. A great way to understand what we do is to break down:There are services CCA already provides and is well-known for, including our conferences, working groups and special events.Trade Missions are another thing we're known forWe provide market intelligence and customized, on-demand information for members looking to expand their business. We have on-the ground staff in Nigeria, Ethiopia and Kenya:What's New At CCASo, What's New?At CCA, we believe the best way to do business in Africa is to be in Africa. This year, we're committed to walking the talk.Vote of ThanksUnfortunately, we are out of time, but I would love to hear from all of you. We are sending out a brief member survey immediately following this meeting. There you'll have an opportunity to write in your comments as well.So I have two "asks" of you today: First, be an engaged partner and tell us what you think. We want to hear from you so CCA can know how to better serve youAnd my second ask is in regards to the upcoming U.S.-Africa Business Summit. The number one reason people attend the Summit is based on a member recommendation - your recommendation. Today, you received the save the date before anyone else, and later today we'll be sending it out broadly. Please tell your colleagues, other businesses and let them know why you are attending and how valuable the Summit is to your business.&nbsp; Please plan to register, participate, and sponsor.Thank you once again for coming and I look forward to working with all of you!