To be light-skinned is a fad lately. To attain a desired complexion, people, predominantly women, are lured into using cheap, substandard and adulterated cosmetics, among others.But the craze, which is spreading like wildfire, has terrible side effects on the users' skins, experts have warned. Due to the huge market, unscrupulous people continue to smuggle cosmetics into Uganda, where beauty-seeking women use them. The smugglers, who pick them from neighbouring countries and as far away as West Africa, often try to avoid detection.However, thanks to the vigilance of Uganda Revenue Authority (URA) enforcement teams, most of the smuggled cosmetics are impounded. Among the recent incidents was one in which the cosmetics were concealed in sacks containing matooke, a staple food in some parts of Uganda.In another incident, Wilfred Mugisha, a suspect and resident of Kasese, was intercepted by the URA South Western enforcement team attempting to smuggle banned cosmetics into Uganda from DR Congo.In Fort Portal, the enforcement team recovered smuggled cosmetics that were being ferried in old jerrycans and drums. The three incidents are among many in which cosmetics prohibited by the Uganda National Bureau of Standards (UNBS) have been impounded by vigilant enforcement teams.Due to the sustained crackdown, a total of 1,151 cartons of such cosmetics have been impounded since July 2016. Additionally, 1,050 dozens, 344 packets and 2,375 pieces have been impounded in separate incidents. The most commonly smuggled brand is Pro Light, according to assistant commissioner, enforcement, Agnes Nabwire.Also commonly impounded are creams containing diproson, which officials have raised red flags about. Experts at the Uganda National Bureau of Standards (UNBS) have blacklisted some cosmetics due to an ingredient hydroquinone which in a few unique cases can be prescribed by dermatologists (skin doctors).Hydroquinone (chemical formula C6H4(OH)2) is a very powerful and toxic chemical used in photo processing, manufacture of rubber and is an active agent in hair dyes. In cosmetics, it is used as a skin-lightening agent. Other cosmetics contain mercury, a bio-accumulative toxicant, which is easily absorbed through the skin, respiratory and gastrointestinal tissues.According to Dr Phiona Namutebi, a dermatologist, cosmetics containing hydroquinone should only be used when prescribed by a dermatologist. Constant use of such cosmetics, she warned, causes ochronosis where skin becomes lighter and partly greyish black in addition to having net-like patterns.Namutebi added, "Some of the cosmetics containing hydroquinone cause depigmentation." Depigmentation is the lightening of the skin, or loss of pigment.Continued usage of such cosmetics, she warned, has irreversible impact on internal organs of the body.Government in 2003 banned the importation of cosmetics containing hydroquinone."Additionally, our certification team inspects local manufacturers' premises to ensure that they do not add prohibited ingredients," stated Deus Mubangizi, UNBS manager, Testing.Twice, using public notices, UNBS has warned the public about cosmetics containing hydroquinone and mercury."Body care products containing mercury and hydroquinone continue to be on the Ugandan market. These two ingredients, which are widely used in skin-lightening creams, have been proved to have adverse effects on the health of human beings when used in cosmetics," stated one of the notices.It referred to mercury as a bio-accumulative toxicant, which attacks the central nervous system and adversely affects the mouth, gums and teeth. High exposure over long periods of time, according to UNBS, will result in brain damage and ultimately death.Similarly, when used in cosmetics as a skin-lightening agent, hydroquinone inhibits the production of melanin, and will initially cause the skin to lighten. Reduced melanin a pigment responsible for creating the colour of our eyes, skin and hair shades, leads to lack of protection against the sun's ultra violet rays.URA assistant commissioner Public and Corporate Affairs, Vincent Seruma, pointed out that other than revenue collection, the institution's roles include protecting society and the environment.For that reason, he added, URA would continue to impound imports which are deemed dangerous to people, plants and animals. This includes other prohibited materials such as explosives and pornographic material, to name but a few.The writer works with URA communications department.