For three days last week, rare talent and creativity were on marathon display as the African Drums Festival took centre stage at the June 12 Cultural Centre, Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. The event, hosted by the state government, as part of efforts to reawaken interest in the black world's culture through drums and dance, attracted cultural troupes and a drum ensemble, as well as artistes, from different parts of Nigeria and the African continent.It was indeed a showcase of several African drums, namely: Bata, Iya Ilu Bembe, Djembe, Dundun, Bara, Adowa, Sabar, Bongolo, Brekete/Gungon, Ekwe, Ewe, Kpanlogo, Tama, among others. Participants notably from the United States of America, Cuba, Haiti, Benin Republic, Congo Brazzaville, Togo, Ghana, Burkina Faso, and 18 states of the Nigerian federation gathered for the cultural fiesta held at the grounds of the June 12 Cultural Centre, Kuto, Abeokuta.The presence of governors, traditional rulers, diplomats, tourists and culture advocates also added glamour to the event, which was an expanded version of the Nigerian Drums Festival held last year.Cultural renaissanceBy all standards, the festival showcased the varied drums, performances and exhibitions that are peculiar to multi-ethnic groups in Africa and indeed, the black race. As anticipated by the organisers, the festival forged the people culturally on a united front and further attested to Africa's cultural renaissance. In April 2016, the idea of the drums festival was first hatched to increase tourism migration to the state and promote the unique, age-long potential of drums in the life of Africans.The event, where the acclaimed world's tallest drum - a 17 feet tall musical instrument - was unveiled, received tremendous global attention. The attendant wide range of commendations and suggestions made the host broaden the scope and enable participation from other parts of the African continent and around the world. This year, the organisers have improved upon the cultural fiesta. They unveiled a new world tallest drum, 18 feet tall from the ground.Roll call: Ogun State Governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun and his Bayelsa State counterpart, Seriake Dickson were in attendance at the opening ceremony, which was marked by several performances, last Thursday, while Governors Rochas Okorocha, Abiola Ajimobi and Aminu Masari of Imo, Oyo and Katsina were represented.Also at the event were prominent traditional rulers, including the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, Olu of Ilaro, Oba Kehinde Olugbenle, and Olowu of Owu, Oba Adegboyega Dosunmu. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who was represented by the Artistic Director, National Theatre, Comrade Tar Ukoh; Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka, Deputy Head of Mission, Cuban Embassy, Leydis Bernal Suarez, and Ms Regina Hills who represented the Mayor of Dallas, also graced the occasion.In his remarks, Governor Dickson noted that drums are central to all African cultures, and commended Amosun for staging an event to showcase them. He urged other governors to promote the best culture of their states. "I thank the governor for using drums as a point of unity for Africans. This is what we should all be doing to promote the best of our people and showcase our culture to the rest of the world", Dickson said.On his part, Amosun said the festival has come to stay not only because of the glitz and glamour associated with it but also because of the continuous positive effects it has on national life. The governor, who noted that drums are potent communication tools among various tribes, said any nation that does not want to become extinct must always remember its culture. He expressed optimism that the fiesta would receive global acceptance in no time. "Drums perform socio-economic functions and they are very significant in our society. As a state, we are giving proper definition for cultural heritage and reawakening the interest of our people in culture."We believe that this event, will among other things, promote the cultural heritage and unity of the African continent; project the uniqueness of African culture in a more positive light; open up new vistas for cultural artefacts as viable tools for socio-economic development; and acquitting all and sundry with the varied drums and dances that are peculiar to multi-ethnic groups in Africa," Amosun said.He added that, "it is expected that with this platform, we must have re-energised the cultural zeal in the minds of our people and the resultant cultural resurgence will, in the long run, help us appreciate our African culture more than ever before and forge ahead culturally on a united front. It is an undeniable fact that drums and drumming are pivotal to the very existence of human life, particularly among Nigerians and, by extension Africans."Whereas drumming in the western culture is nearly always associated with entertainment or a unique musical instrument that beautifies the rhythm of music; in Africa, however, drums remain part and parcel of our lives right from the cradle to the grave. It, therefore, holds a deep-rooted symbolic, cultural and historical significance.Historical significance"Drums are potent weapons for communication among the various tribes. They were often used to herald meetings, like the gathering of a town hall meeting; dangers; the beginning or end of war; a prelude to peace; announcing the arrival of prominent visitors, etc. No wonder, they have been described as the first form of telephone. Aside from their relevance during divinations; festivities; occasions and ceremonies, drums perform socio-economic and spiritual functions."For instance, certain drums symbolize and protect royalty and are often housed in sacred abodes, Gbedu drum specifically, can only be beaten after the demise of an Oba. This further lends credence to the fact that drums, especially in African life cannot be relegated to the background."In his goodwill message, the Ooni of Ife, noted that the festival would rejuvenate and sustain the diverse cultural heritage of the participating countries, stressing that the festival would continue to create opportunities for the youths to showcase their talents and dexterity on different drums.The revered monarch, who spoke in Yoruba, said: "The African Drums Festival is a tourism haven and a boost to our unity as a people in Yorubaland and Nigeria in particular. Drums have continued to unite and add glamour to our lifestyle from time immemorial. I am glad at what I am seeing here today. Yoruba people are unique creatures because God created us first. God created us as humble beings and He gave us rich cultural heritage in which drum is derived from."The monarch, who lamented the dearth of political will to promote cultural heritage, urged state governments to redirect efforts to other aspects of the Nigerian culture with a view to propagating them.