Abuja &mdash; A vaccinologist, Dr. Simon Magaji Agwale, has produced a conjugate vaccine for the prevention of typhoid fever which he claims has an efficacy of 90 per cent and once taken, it sustains for a life time and has the capacity of preventing the disease worldwide.The vaccine which is known as Typhoid Conjugate Vaccine (TCV) is a combination of more than one vaccine, as he revealed that research and statistics had shown that the single dose has become effective in the prevention of the disease which gulps between 500 million- one billion dollars.Agwale who is the founder and CEO of Innovative Biotech Ltd, Keffi, Nasarawa State and the United States of America, and is working in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Health, said the vaccine which is capable of reducing several challenges in terms of health and socio-economic crisis has been embraced by some state governments and is optimistic that like other interventions for life-threatening dieases such as HIV/AIDS, TB, malaria and Polio among others, developpers are expected to support the production of the vaccines for the sustainability of the product.Agwale who has over 20 years experience in combining top-level scientific research with the operation of a Biotech company said he has already made several candidates DNA vaccines, some of which have been shown to be immunogenic in animal models."The present vaccine does not protect children below two years.It's efficacy is about 55 per cent. So if 100 people are vaccinated only 55 percent can be protected. Science is about filling up gaps and making innovations. So the vaccine is a combination of vaccine to form a conjugate. This practice will break the limitations.""This type of vaccine has the ability to protect for life, instead of three years as being the norm in single vaccines. It has more than 90 per cent efficacy. With the single vaccine, kids were protected against the disease but now, we are talking about its eradication. Everybody that gets a shot is protected for life.""Typhoid Conjugate Vaccine is the surest way to eradicate typhoid an this is through vaccination. Based on available studies, the drugs e have are resistant, hence the inability to cure the ailment.""The sum of $500 million to $1 billion is often estimated and used in putting one product in the market. For private manufacturers, it's about making profit for the sustainability of the product. Someone will have to pay for it especially as we are launching two sets of products."