The Liberia National Academy of Music (LINAM) will be staging an Independence and Peace Festival under the Theme: "Awake and Build our Motherland" at the Monrovia City Hall theater.LINAM, which is widely known for hosting standard musical events, will host veteran musician and maestro James Varrick Armaah of Ghana as special guest musician. Maestro Armaah is the executive director of the Harmonious Chorale of Ghana, a widely known interdenominational choir in Africa, trained in performing and initiating choral works.In an interview with the Daily Observer recently, LINAM founder and executive director Wilmot K. Bobbroh, III said together with maestro Armaah, he intends to use music as therapy for peace as the country approaches the 2017 elections, and to also celebrate the Independence Day of the oldest republic in Africa."The event will be used as a means of reawakening Liberia's musical industry in the areas of choral performance and as a yardstick to improve the musical knowledge of Liberia's religious musicians. The event is also an official network establishing the relationship between Liberia and Ghana in choral performances for peace and civilization. At the event, the official choir of the academy of the Liberia Premier Choral Society will perform classical works by G. F. Handel, Franz Haydn and other world renowned choral musicians," said Bobbroh.He said the chorus will also perform some of his works, including "We All Are One," and works by maestro Armaah, including his most famous "OYE." Other works to be performed include "Wah Gee Tee Bee," a High-life composition by fallen Liberian musician, Prof. Agnes Nebo vonBallmoos.Ghanaian Maestro J. V. ArmaahThe LINAM founder said other groups and participating musicians will include: the Apostolic Faith Orchestra, Amb. Miatta Fahnbulleh, and veteran soprano Georgia Mitchell Quaye, a concert performer at LINAM.Bobbroh said his vision for the Liberia National Academy of Music began in November 2013. "In 2014 the academy started operations under my leadership with the aim of promoting formal music education to the Liberian community, especially the youth, as well as digging and fostering our musical heritage (traditional)," he said. "Since the inception of the academy, the musical desires of many young Liberians have been satisfied."He said the academy offers training in piano performance, strings, percussions, wind instruments, gives voice lessons and general music education. "The academy also provides consultancy to churches and other academic institutions that are in search of musicians; gives advice on purchase of instruments, conducts workshops and seminars, and provides music teachers," he added. The academy, he said, has put out two sets of graduates that are making massive impacts in the Liberian society.Admissions to the concert are as follow: General rate - US$10; patron - US$20; and sponsors -US$50. Children will be accepted at US$5. For more inquires or ticket reservation, please contact the following numbers: 0776312080 or 0886563121.Doors will open on Sunday, July 9, 2017 at 5:30 P.M.