Robert Kyagulanyi aka Bobi Wine's victory in the Kyadondo East by-election yesterday completed a remarkable transformation of the artiste, who years ago never imagined he would join politics."He did not like politics but as he grew up and started experiencing many life challenges, he decided to join politics," Eddie Yawe, an older brother who has twice contested and lost parliamentary elections, told The Observer yesterday.Kyagulanyi beat some stiff challenge from NRM's Sitenda Ssebalu, his closest challenger in Thursday's election, Apollo Kantinti, the FDC candidate and outgoing Kyadondo East MP, and Muwada Nkunyingi, an independent. His victory in a hotly contested race was further evidence to prove that sheer force of personality can trump party affiliation.While he professed to be a supporter of Forum for Democratic Change (FDC), Kyagulanyi stood as an independent. The singer, whose rallies have had a festival-like feel to them, will now straddle the marbled corridors of the parliament and work his way towards becoming an accomplished politician.Some of the people who made Kyagulanyi's victory possible are: Anne Whitehead, a Canadian citizen, who handled aspects of political strategy. According to sources, Whitehead reportedly sharpened the singer's rough political edges, re-made his image and gave him advice on how to conduct himself publicly.Whitehead also ran a WhatsApp group, KYADONDO EAST WATCH, where she posted updates of what was transpiring in the constituency. Frank Gashumba, a renowned social and political commentator, also played a special advisory role to Kyagulanyi and, among other things, constantly kept his social media pages alive with highlights of Kyagulanyi's rallies.Kyagulanyi was born on February 9, 1982. He attended Kanoni primary school, Masaka primary school and Kitante Hill School before he pursued a degree in Music, Dance and Drama at Makerere University.He was raised in a slum in Kamwokya, a city suburb, and escaped all life's vagaries; poverty, crime and unemployment to become a prominent reggae artiste. He sang songs on subjects ranging from poverty to injustice, from peaceful co-existence to political tolerance.In Kyagulanyi's journey of personal triumph, many voters in Kyadondo East saw a reflection of their lives. Once he made it to the top, he never lost touch with his humble beginnings."Bobi is humble. Even when he is rich and prominent, he still gives back to the poor," said Yasin Kagere, 26, a supporter from Kiteezi.NEW JOURNEYYet the bigger question is whether he can replicate the energy and enthusiasm that he has exuded on the campaign trail to the floor of parliament.Some analysts have pointed to the fact that there are many prominent personalities such as comedians, artiste and journalists who once elected to parliament never live up to people's expectations. Yawe said he was confident his brother will turn out to be an exception, given his musical background."Bobi Wine is a singer and a composer. Music is a form of discussion and so is debating in parliament. He is a confident person and does not fear to talk," Yawe said.Betty Nambooze, the MP for Mukono municipality, said there is no single formula for becoming an effective legislator. However, if Kyagulanyi wants to become an influential and impactful MP, she said, he has to do a number of things.First, she said, he must choose carefully the group of MPs he will hang out with. Some MPs, she said, can help him find his footing in the House while others can derail him.Secondly, Nambooze said Kyagulanyi must become a fulltime activist and fight for causes that go beyond Kyadondo East. This will broaden the base of his appeal.One of the causes she expects Kyagulanyi to add his voice to, is opposition to the alleged ploy by the NRM to amend the Constitution and remove the cap on presidential age limit.Nambooze said Kyagulanyi will have to initiate parliamentary business such as raising petitions, private member's bills, read or ask tough questions, if he is to stand out from the sea of legislators."Bobi Wine has raised people's expectations. His supporters expect a lot from him; so, he has no option but to be a performer. If he does not, he will not last beyond one term."