THE Miss World Zimbabwe UK beauty pageant is fast approaching, with this year's event being hosted by singer, Tytan and businesswoman, Olinda Chapel.The 2017 finalists were announced mid-June and include; Karen Kawadza, Natasha Gweza, Nyaradzo Mawando, Khethiwe Ncube, Amanda Nkomo, Tanaka Muwalo, Tafadzwa Mazanhanga and Laurah Simbi.Musician, Adrian Tate is also scheduled to perform at the pageant. The former Soul Afrika group member, who recently released his EP alongside Tytan, has dubbed it as his comeback.Meanwhile, songstress Cynthia Mare has also joined the stellar line-up of guest performers.The artist, who is currently in the UK, said she is excited to be performing at the pageant and looking forward to entertaining guests on the night.Organisers have also announced that popular DJ, King Alfred will also be at the event and will be keeping guests entertained in between and, after the event.The panel of Judges have been announced and include, PR Executive Gordon Flynn, former Miss Zimbabwe, Karen Stally and TV personality Bren Mupa.Fashion designer Rahima Mohammed and Panache Parties director, Tau Musarurwa complete the panel for Saturday.The pageant is being held at the prestigious De Vere Grand Connaught rooms in London.The event is planned to start at 7pm. Limited tickets are still available, with standard tickets available for &pound;35. VIP tickets, which will guarantee guests front row seats, as well as a meal are available for &pound;60 and can be purchased from the website at http://zimbabwefashionshowcase.com/miss-world-zim-uk/This year's pageant has been proudly sponsored by Senditoo, Exodus Law Associates, Raaah's evening wear, FOSTA, Elegance Fashions and Diva Hot Spot.Miss World Zimbabwe Finalists:Nyaradzo MawondoNyaradzo Mawondo is a 20-year-old Law student who is currently studying at Brunel University. She was born in Harare, Zimbabwe and raised in Mutare where she attended Chancellor Primary School. At the age of 8, she moved to the UK.Her role models include human rights lawyer Beatrice Mtetwa and the late poet and civil rights activist, Maya Angelou.In five years, she hopes to be working as a human rights lawyer, helping to establish and affirm human rights laws in Zimbabwe as well as internationally. Her interests include travelling, hiking, reading novels, photography and learning new languages.Khethiwe NcubeBorn in Harare, Zimbabwe, Khethiwe currently works on a ship, and gets to explore the world at the same time.A passionate humanitarian, Khethiwe's community work has been recognised by BBC and S4C. They documented her journey and aired it on BBC. She says that the exposure changed her life and she has since worked with numerous people in their businesses, and done a lot of charity work.Karen KawadzaKaren is an avid photographer, traveller and budding music producer who was born in Bulawayo and raised in Manchester.She is the founder of Eminent Youth Journal which will officially be launched later this year. Passionate about, youth, cultural and empowerment initiatives, she hopes to, in the next five years; actively stand for youth and creative empowerment on a larger scale, locally, nationally and eventually internationally.Natasha GwezaBorn in Harare, Zimbabwe, 18-year-old Natasha moved to England in 2011. She will be attending DeMontfort University later this year to study Nursing and her future aspiration is to specialise in Child Nursing.Tanaka MuwaloTanaka is a budding charity worker who aspires to become a social worker in the next five years. Her passion for charity work led her to join the NCS team in 2013 and she was a key member in raising funds for a charity called Rainbows Children's Hospice in Loughborough.In the past year, she has been modelling at fashion shows, done a number of photoshoots, including for a clothing line. She has also done video shoots for music artists and appeared as a special VIP guest at music concerts.Amanda NkomoAmanda was born in Bulawayo. She moved to the UK at the age of four but goes back to Zimbabwe regularly. Dedicated to her charity work, Amanda started modelling three years ago and says that modelling gives her a voice and gives her an opportunity to reach a wider audience.Tafadzwa MazanhangaTafadzwa is a Law student who hopes to practice in the future. She also hopes to be an advocate for vulnerable people. Tafadzwa has a passion for modelling and says it has helped her find confidence and self-esteem.Laurah SimbiLaurah is currently studying whilst simultaneously running businesses and supporting and fundraising for organisations such as Cancer Research and Children In Need.She has set up an award-winning boutique called Locco Trends &amp; Mirror Flare. She has also launched a Life Coaching Service called A Journey with Laurah Simbi.The winner, 1st and 2nd runners up, will be flown to Zimbabwe to compete for the Miss Zimbabwe 2017 title mid-July, with the overall winner being entered into the Miss World competition to be held in September.The Miss World Zimbabwe UK campaign, which is running under the theme, Proud to be Zimbabwean, is a celebration of Zimbabwe, its culture and of women.