Electronic dance music (EDM) is a term that has been given to the panoply of musical styles, ranging from those without a beat to house, techno and trance music, among others.Much as the music has been famous for over 30 years, it is only in the mid-2000s that pop culture started pushing the term EDM - apparently it was intended at rebranding the rave culture in USA.Today, EDM is not just music but a cult that has swept over Europe, America and finding a home in Africa - producers of the music. Performing DJs in this area are not merely on demand, but are also paid handsomely; some of the world's top EDM DJs won't settle for less than $250,000 a night.But when they eventually play, it is not just about a DJ, but an experience, and that is the story of the Club beer-sponsored Diplo gig that went down at Golf Course hotel in Kampala, Friday night.Born Thomas Wesley Pentz, Diplo is an American DJ, producer and one of the founders of the electronic music trio, Major Lazer. He gave a spirited performance that many noted should be a master lesson for the local DJs.Diplo, even on independent projects, is quite basic, letting you enjoy the lyrics of a song and nonexistent chorus, before launching into his normal electronic dance mode. It is a technique that worked perfectly on Where Are You Now, his collaboration project that featured Skrillex and Justin Bieber.His Kampala show featured another member of Major Lazer, Leighton Walsh alias Walshy Fire, who played the role of a hype man. Together, they produced a version of a condensed EDM concert that at times struggled to stay true to what they believed in and what could probably please the audience.They did this through famous crowd pleasers such as Fat Joe's All the Way, Karama's Amasanyalaze Negagenda and Tekno's Pana, which had been improved to include Luganda words about using boda bodas.But it wasn't just his playlist; in fact, the playlist gave way too little. Diplo and Walshy Fire were epic performers who left no gimmick in the box. They jumped on tables, changed attires and made people squat, sing and dance.EDM in UgandaThe EDM movement has always been underground in Uganda. At the Diplo show, many of the connoisseurs were at the front, dancing until the ground shook. They were excited by two showcases; DJ Dark Meme and Diplo himself.Dark Meme is a Ugandan-born DJ who is touring as the opening for Diplo in Africa. His set had fewer songs - he stayed true to the element of EDM, usually fusing live African percussion with his mixing.But before him, Aludah, DJ BK and DJ RPM had played for the audience. According to DJ Aludah, much as there is an audience for EDM music in Kampala, it is small compared to the greater audience that prefers a different sound.One Atyang, an ardent follower of EDM through events like Nyege Nyege festival, was in fact disappointed that Diplo had switched his sound to accommodate everyone.