Kampala minister Beti Kamya on Monday issued a directive banning three-wheeler motorcycles (commonly known as tuk-tuk) from the city ostensibly because they are not licensed. Police immediately started to enforce the minister's directive without question, impounding a couple of tuk-tuks.As expected, the directive has drawn the ire of the motorcyclists who on Tuesday reportedly tried to attack the minister's home. It has also raised the old question about who thinks and plans for the city and whether the minister, by simple pronouncement, can decide such a far-reaching public issue.Yes, there is no doubt that Kampala - and indeed the country's public transport system - needs to be streamlined and regulated. Yet a knee-jerk pronouncement such as this is not what city residents and the country expects. What the public expects is a well-thought out policy that will help people commute safely and faster.It, therefore, seems inverted logic that the ministerial pronouncement is okay with the operation of two-wheeler boda-boda motorcycles that dangerously load up to four people in very precarious postures, but finds a problem with three-wheelers tuk-tuks that can safely carry up to four people. The truck version of the tuk-tuks can load up to half a ton and have proved to be very useful and cheap for downtown transportation of good.To solve the city's public transport problem, Kampala Capital City Authority and the minister need to get out of these sideshows with boda-boda and mini-van taxi (kamunye) drivers and look at resetting the city's mass transport system. This will involve making very painful decisions such as banning the small 14-seater commuter taxis and boda-boda from the city and licensing 28-seater and above buses.Both commuters and kamunye owners (many of them decision makers in government), will certainly resist this. But their discomfort should not derail everyone from building a better mass transport system for the city. There will be need for the government to provide some support either through concessional funding or loan guarantees for organised groups with viable business plans to acquire buses directly from manufacturers such as Tata of India that has already established itself in the country.Second, the authorities need to enforce without fear or favour the driving rules on road as well as build alternative roads leading into the city from the suburbs. This will not only help resolve the incessant traffic jams that are many times caused by impatience and sheer foolishness of drivers, it will also make travel in the city much safer for everybody.But until then, let the tuk-tuks run. They are safer and better than the boda-bodas.