The South African Government is determined to ensure that the youth in the country are developed and molded to become leaders in the future. This is indicative by programmes that have been developed and implemented by different government departments and agencies in furthering developments and addressing socio-economic challenges facing the youth.This was a core message delivered during the Youth in Tourism Imbizo held recently in Potchefstroom at the Ikageng stadium in the NW 405 Municipality hosted by both the North West MEC for Tourism, Desbo Mohono and the Deputy Ministers of Tourism and Presidency, Elizabeth Thabethe and Buti Manamela respectively. These dedicated Government leaders encouraged the over one thousand young people attending the event not to indulge in activities that will destroy their lives, but to explore opportunities available within government and use them to develop their lives and that they will always be a priority when it comes to Economic Development programmes, Job creation and many other programmes geared towards youth empowerment.The objective of the Youth in Tourism Imbizo was, to provide access to information, opportunities and funding mechanisms available for youth in the tourism sector and related industries. The event also targeted the Youth in Tourism (students and learners in tourism), and aspiring youth entrepreneurs, women and the public in general. It also seeks to stimulate township tourism and inculcate the culture of domestic tourism at an early age to the young entrepreneurs.The MEC, Mme Desbo Mohono further vowed to ensure that she will make sure that every opportunity available within the Tourism industry, especially in the province will be explored and directed to every youth development programme. "We had several young people knocking on our doors, requesting either funding or bursaries.Out of the few that we have assisted, we have obtained good results and that makes me proud that our efforts in ensuring youth development in the Tourism sector are coming to fruition. I will personally solder on until we win this battle. We are currently encouraging them to study towards starting their own businesses instead of being job seekers post-graduation", said MEC Mohono."Tourism industry has big great opportunities and we are determined to make sure that the young people in the province and the country take the lead in this industry. We have many of those that have made inroads and we will continue to assist them growing the economy of this country through Tourism programmes," said MEC Mohono.According to the 2016 Stats SA quarterly labour force survey released in 1 June 2017, unemployed youth (aged 15-34) accounts for 38,6%. of the national overall unemployment rate. Despite this, Deputy Minister Elizabeth Thabethe is optimistic that tourism has the potential to create opportunities that will contribute to alleviating youth unemployment, poverty and inequality."Our government advocates for the advancement of youth economic empowerment. As a Department we have prioritized the advancement of youth in our plans for growing tourism. We will ensure that young people are actively participating and benefiting from the initiatives and opportunities provided by the sector," said Deputy Minister Thabethe.Issued by: North West Tourism