Corporate Council on Africa's - 11th Biennial U.S.-Africa Business Summit&nbsp;www.ccausafricasummit.com&nbsp;June 13-16, 2017Omni Shoreham Hotel | Washington, DC#AfricaBizSummitREGISTERAfrica's Role in the Global Supply ChainAfrica's presence and importance in regional and global supply chains is growing as manufacturers and buyers seek to diversify sourcing and move production to inputs and efficient labor supplies. Africa is reshaping how trade is done, diversifying from commodity-based economies, building industrial and manufacturing capacity, and offering attractive incentives designed to increased FDI flows and trade volumes. These trends are accompanied by changes in the political, economic, infrastructural, and social landscape of the continent. Many companies are currently evaluating their global strategies in this dynamic environment and are considering the African environment as the right place to be.We will hear from both U.S. and African experts who understand the importance of Africa's role in shaping global supply chains and who have invested heavily in the continent. They will discuss the current operating dynamics, economic outlook and offer best practice solutions and opportunities for growth and development.Moderator:Ms. Nneka Eze, Partner and the Lagos Office Director, Dalberg Global AdvisorsPanelists:About the U.S.-Africa Business SummitThe Corporate Council on Africa (CCA) will convene business and government leaders at its 11th biennial U.S.-Africa Business Summit in Washington, DC to discuss the challenges of doing business in Africa, proffer actionable solutions for businesses looking to seize opportunities, and begin to shape U.S.-Africa trade and investment policies. The theme for the 2017 U.S.-Africa Business Summit is The U.S. Stake in Africa: A Call for Greater Economic Engagement . This overarching theme is explored through three main topics on each day:1. &nbsp; Navigating the African Market2. &nbsp; Africa in a Globalizing Economy3. &nbsp; Regional Integration and the Impact on Trade and InvestmentInterested in supply chains in Africa? You are invited to register to attend.REGISTER