Top Nigerian artistes recently gave support to The Goodfathers Foundation, a non-profit organisation, when they participated in a two-fold event that started with a Walk For Fathers to drum-up support for fathers and to ignite a fresh commitment to support and celebrate the Nigerian man during a programme to commemorate this year's International Father's Day.The walk led by celebrities including Sir Bimbo Manuel, Femi Jacobs, Ohimai Amaize, Chuks Anyaduba (Road Safety Activist), Charly Boy Oputa, Mc Amana, Toksdam of Africa, Amb. David Egwu and others started at 7.30am.However, the D-Day was on the Father's Day proper on June 18 when the foundation held a black bow-tie event and the evening featured a special father's monologue by Bimbo Manuel, Femi Jacobs, Ope Jideojo and Rume Sefia.Also, a brief panel discussion was held discussing 'Absentee Fathers and the impact on society'. The panelists include Prof. Barth Nnaji, Sir Bimbo Manuel, Mr. Jonson Ojogbane, Mr. Sunny Ikechukwu Nnacheta. Special Father's Day messages were delivered by the Indian Ambassador to Nigeria and other dignitaries.However, several people won free invites to bring their fathers to the event as they had an evening to remember. These special people won these invites by posting a picture on Instagram with their dad telling what their fathers meant to them.This was the maiden edition and according to the founder, Mr. Nnaedu Umeohia, it won't be the last, they went on to explain that, "The Goodfathers Foundation is a non-governmental organiation. Our mandate is to Support, Inspire, Transform and Empower men to become Good Fathers. At TG Foundation, we understand that the bedrock of every society is the family. We hold the view that building a sustainable nation is intricately linked with having Good Fathers who can serve as role models at home and in the wider society." Other members of the organising team includes, Mr. Tokunbo Olorundami (co-founder), Mr. Bryt Nzenwa (Head of Operations), Comrade Isaach Balami and Mr. Rapheal Abejirin (Events coordinator).