On July 9, 2014, Daily Monitor carried an editorial titled: 'Emulate Acholi, Madi on ethnic conflicts'. We then praised the Acholi and Madi for burying their differences over a bitter border land wrangle. We commended them for having set a decent example because other bloody ethnic tensions were tearing apart communities in the Rwenzori and had left at least 90 people dead.But exactly three years later, some ruffians have chosen to destroy that praiseworthy move and peace between the Acholi and the Madi in a bloody attack last Wednesday. At least six people were killed, 32 left nursing deadly injuries, and more than 100 huts burnt down in Juka village in Apaa Parish, Adjumani District, and more than 700 displaced and left without food and shelter. Livestock, including goats and sheep, were also killed.Just what could have gone terribly wrong after the Acholi and Madi buried their differences over the same bitter border land wrangle only three years ago? What could have bust the peace negotiated by neutral third party, Safer World Uganda, a non-governmental organisation, that created space for active participation of chiefs, administrators, and political leaders to stop the wrangles? Did government sleep on this brewing volcano, given that the conflict over the wider Apaa land block in Pabbo Sub-county in Amuru District had for years pitted the Acholi in Amuru against the Madi in Adjumani District? Both the Amuru and Adjumani claim ownership of Apaa, which Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA) officials also say is part of East Madi Wildlife Reserve.Sadly, disputes over the land remain outstanding between NFA, UWA and the Acholi and Madi. Nevertheless, as we argued before, the onus is on the leadership in Acholi and Madi whose communities have lived in harmony for centuries in both South Sudan and Uganda.They must not allow this revolting act by outlaws to break their coexistence. This why we urge the authorities in Adjumani to move quickly, identify, isolate and promptly arrest and prosecute those thugs who armed themselves with crude weapons and wreaked the havoc.The gesture by Adjumani District leaders to pursue dialogue with their Acholi counterparts is commendable. Both should stop the blame game and quickly rediscover their commonalities and shared wellbeing. Both communities live across administrative boundaries of Acholi and Madi, and any violent clash between them leaves both as losers.The army and police have been mentioned adversely in the conflict. Let them step back, reassess their conduct and not rush to be on the defensive all the time. The best option for the Madi and Acholi are to be each other's keepers.The issue: Apaa land crisisOur view: The gesture by Adjumani District leaders to pursue dialogue with their Acholi counterparts is commendable. Both should stop the blame game and quickly rediscover their commonalities and shared wellbeing.