Warsaw &mdash; Frost &amp; Sullivan and DLA Piper host exclusive E-Mobility breakfast briefingThe electro mobility sector in Poland has become one of the crucial pillars in the Polish Sustainable Development Plan. The ambitious goal calls for 1 million electric vehicles (EVs) on the roads by 2025. Will it be possible? What is the current governmental position on this issue? These and other questions were raised during an E-Mobility breakfast briefing co-hosted by Frost &amp; Sullivan and DLA Piper on April 11, in Warsaw, Poland.This invite-only event kicked off with the presentation, Global Overview of the EV Market by Anjan Hemanth Kumar, Programme Manager, Powertrain &amp; EV, Frost &amp; Sullivan, and was followed by lawyers from DLA Piper Poland discussing legal aspects. In the final part of the event, all attendees participated in a panel discussion - Opportunities in the Polish Electro Mobility Market - moderated by John Raspin, Director, Energy &amp; Environment, Frost &amp; Sullivan. They discussed infrastructure concerns and what is needed to speed up the process.For more information on the work Frost &amp; Sullivan is doing on electro mobility in Poland, Europe and globally, please e-mail Evgenia Oleynikova, Corporate Communications, at evgenia.olaynikova@frost.comAs discussed during the event, from 2011 to 2016, the average EV penetration of new personal vehicle registrations was only 0.13 percent. New government regulations will play an important role in solidifying Poland's position as one of the region's strongest supply chain players in the EV market.Norway has the highest EV adoption among all European countries; however, with an average of $8,250, it also has the highest incentive. While Poland is launching its electro mobility plan later than the rest of the EU states, it can use this to its advantage."Poland has a tremendous opportunity to analyze the models implemented in other countries and cherry-pick the best policies in order to drive its domestic E-Mobility industry," said Mubarak Moosa, Director, Central and Eastern Europe, Frost &amp; Sullivan.The event featured high-profile speakers from industry players and government representatives, including from the Ministry of Energy, Greenway Infrastructure Poland, and Impact Clean Power Technology. This breakfast briefing further established Frost &amp; Sullivan's and DLA Piper's pioneering role in thought leadership with respect to the future development within the Polish electro mobility market.For more information, please e-mail Evgenia Oleynikova, Corporate Communications, at evgenia.olaynikova@frost.comAbout Frost &amp; SullivanFrost &amp; Sullivan, the Growth Partnership Company, works in collaboration with clients to leverage visionary innovation that addresses the global challenges and related growth opportunities that will make or break today's market participants. For more than 50 years, we have been developing growth strategies for the global 1000, emerging businesses, the public sector and the investment community. Contact us: Start the discussionAbout DLA PiperDLA Piper is a global law firm with lawyers located in more than 40 countries throughout the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific. DLA Piper in Poland provides legal and tax advisory services to international corporations, financial institutions, as well as local entrepreneurs operating in all industry sectors.Contact: Evgenia OleynikovaCorporate Communications - Europe P: +48 224816210E: evgenia.oleynikova@frost.comTwitter: @Frost_Sullivan or @FS_Automotive Facebook: FrostandSullivan Linkedin: Future of Mobility - A Frost &amp; Sullivan Forumhttp://ww2.frost.com