Abuja &mdash; Acting President Yemi Osinbajo has approved the appointment of 14 chief medical directors and medical directors in teaching hospitals, federal medical centres and specialty hospitals in Nigeria.A statement from the Federal Ministry of Health states that the appointments were contained in an approval letter signed by the Deputy Chief of Staff to the Acting President addressed to the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole.It added that the appointment for four years' tenure, which takes immediate effect, is in two categories. Five of the appointees will be serving their second and final term while the remaining nine will be serving their first tenure.The names of the new chief executive officers and their health facilities are Prof. Bisala Ekele (University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, Gwagwalada); Dr. V.A. Osiatuma (Federal Medical Centre, Asaba); Prof. Idris Suleiman (Federal Medical Centre, Birnin Kudu); Prof. Abdus Musa (Federal Medical Centre, Abeokuta); Dr. O.O. Alabi (Federal Medical Centre, Lokoja); Dr. Adejuwon Dada (Federal Medical Centre, Ebute-Metta, Lagos); Dr. Ibrahim Wakawa (Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Maiduguri); Dr. O. C. Ogun (Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Lagos) and Dr. Shehu Sale (Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Sokoto).The five that will be serving their second tenure are Prof. A.Z. Mohammed (Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital, Kano); Prof. Anthony Igwegbe (Nnamdi Azikiwe University Teaching Hospital, Nnewi); Dr. Wiza Inusa (Federal Medical Centre, Jalingo); Dr. Joseph B. Okegbe (Federal Medical Centre, Calabar) and Dr. Sunday Olotu (Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Uselu, Benin-City).According to the statement, Adewole congratulated all the appointees and charged them to reciprocate the Federal Government's gesture by taking their appointment as a call to service. He also advised them to hit the ground running by ensuring that they operate an all-inclusive administration that will promote efficiency, transparency and accountability.He stated further that the chief executive officers are to support the current health agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari Administration, which is aimed at achieving universal health coverage.Adewole also reminded them that their health facilities should provide leadership for adjoining secondary and primary health facilities through training and supervision of healthcare services that are rendered.