Masindi &mdash; The row between Masindi politicians and the Resident District Commissioner (RDC), Mr Godfrey Nyakahuma over farmers' sale of sugarcane outside the district has deepened.Led by the district chairperson, Mr Cosmas Byaruhanga, the councilors recently objected to Mr Nyakahuma's directive to the police to impound lorries ferrying sugarcane from the district to Busoga sub-region.During an extra-ordinary council meeting last week, the RDC insisted that the police will continue arresting people and impounding lorries transporting sugarcane from the district saying they were defying a presidential directive against "cane poaching.""... .it is an absolute mandate of the Resident District commission... ..and the Uganda Police to ensure farmers' compliance to a sugar mill and help uphold the integrity of the sugar companies. You are directed to ensure compliance of this policy and it takes immediate effect," Mr Nyakahuma's letter read, in part.Saying Uganda is a free economy, Mr Byaruhanga wondered why sugarcane outgrowers were prohibited from selling their product to other companies."We started selling sugarcane without coercion. Nobody forced us. We didn't get a letter from the President to start growing sugarcane. And if we wanted to stop growing sugarcane today, nobody will arrest us asking why we are not growing it."It is not possible because we are protected by the law of this government. That is why we are comfortable to discuss this matter without intimidation because it is a reality, it is in black and white and then if someone cannot see it, then he has a problem," Mr Byaruhanga argued.The chairperson said Kinyara Sugar Ltd does not have the capacity to buy farmers' excess sugarcaneHowever, talking to Daily Monitor yesterday, Kinyara Sugar Limited corporate communications manager Kirunda Magoola said: "Kinyara sugar can ably consume all the cane registered to Kinyara in our outgrower scheme. We are currently harvesting at 20 months in spite of a contractual obligation to reach 25 months."Our plan is to harvest at 18 months within the next two months to relieve farmers the financial pressures as well as making payment within 10 days as opposed to the contracted 60 days. As usual the price will be revised at the end of the Financial Year 2016/17."