From 9-12 April 2017, the fourth African Regional Round of the ELSA Moot Court Competition on the Law of the World Trade Organization (WTO) was hosted by Rhodes University in Grahamstown, South Africa.The ELSA Moot Court Competition on WTO Law is a simulation of a WTO panel proceeding. The competition is student-run and organized annually by The European Law Students' Association (ELSA) in co&acirc;&euro;&lsquo;operation with the WTO. The 2016-2017 edition is also the 15th edition of the ELSA Moot Court Competition.In his address to the participants, Prof. Melaku Desta of the African Trade Policy Centre (ATPC) of the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA) highlighted the importance of this competition as a capacity building activity for African students to equip themselves which much-needed international trade law skills and knowledge. Although there were winners and losers at the competition, Prof. Desta emphasised that "Africa has won".15 teams from seven countries (Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, South Africa, Tanzania, and Uganda) gathered to compete against each other during three days of pleadings. This is the highest number of teams that have participated in the African Regional Round in any given year.The following Universities participated in the Round: Haramaya University (Ethiopia), Kenya School of Law (Kenya); Strathmore University (Kenya); Riara University School of Law (Kenya); Jomo Kenyatta University of Science and Technology School of Law (Kenya); Kabarak University Law School (Kenya); Moi University (Kenya); National University of Lesotho School of Law (Lesotho); University of Liberia Louis Arthur Grimes School of Law (Liberia); University of the Witwatersrand Oliver Schreiner School of Law (South Africa); Rhodes University Faculty of Law (South Africa); University of Dar es Salaam (Tanzania); Tumaini University College of Dar es Salaam Faculty of Law (Tanzania); and Uganda Christian University (Uganda).Teams presented their arguments for both parties of the dispute - complainant and respondent &acirc;&euro;&lsquo; on a fictitious case. This year the case focused on the WTO disciplines on Free Trade Agreements, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) 1994, the Enabling Clause, and the Agreement on Anti-Dumping Measures.This year's distinguished panellists were Prof. Desta Melaku from ATPC, UNECA, Mr. Wamkele Mene from the South Africa Department of Trade and Industry, Ms Viktoriia Kotsiubska from the WTO, Profs. Laurence Juma and Owen Skae from Rhodes University, Mr Christian Vidal Le&oacute;n and Ms Kholofelo Kugler from ACWL, Mr. Robert McDougall from ICTSD, Ms Marijke Smit from the Israeli Mission to the WTO, Mr. Grant Herholdt from ENS Africa, Mr. Paul du Plessis from PwC, Ms Asmita Parshotam from the South African Institute of International Affairs (SAIIA), Ms Tayla Waterworth from the University of Cape Town, and Ms Faith Tigere from Tutwa Consulting.All the teams developed their knowledge on international trade law issues throughout the week and the best students were awarded with scholarships, internships, traineeships, and opportunities to attend trade law workshops. These opportunities will help the participants to expand their legal knowledge at the University of Barcelona, Spain, the World Trade Institute, Switzerland, the International Centre for Trade and Sustainable Development (ICTSD), Switzerland, the UNCTAD Regional Office for Africa, Ethiopia, and the Trade Law Centre (TRALAC), South Africa.The travel of all the teams to the African Regional Round was generously sponsored by the ATPC, UNECA. Additional sponsors of the African Regional Round included the Society for International Economic Law, Rhodes University International Office, Prof. Gabrielle Marceau, Dr Werner Zdouc, Adv. David Unterhalter, Webber Wentzel, Tutwa Consulting, ENS Africa, and Meridian Wine Merchants. The following institutions also supported the African Regional Round with additional prizes: ACWL, SAIIA, and WTI Advisors.The four best teams of the African Regional Round are the Kenya School of Law, Strathmore University, University of the Witwatersrand, and Kabarak University. These teams are currently preparing to compete in the world finals that will be held in Geneva, Switzerland on 6-11 June 2017. There, they will compete with teams from Europe, Latin America, North America, the Asia-Pacific region.In order to support the African teams' participation in the Final Oral Round we welcome individual donations that can be submitted via Paypal at: www.emc2.elsa.org/partners. The purpose of the donation should be specified as "Support for the African Teams."ELSA Moot Court has bridged the gap between Africa, the WTO and academic programmes such as the University of Barcelona's IELPO and the World Trade Institute's MILE that are not easily accessible and affordable for many Africans, even those with interest. This is beginning to change with the increased awareness of the ELSA Moot Court Competition and its rapid growth within the continent; many of the past participants of the competition have gone on to enrol for the MILE and IELPO programmes. In September I will take another step closer to realizing my dream as dispute settlement lawyer at the WTO, a journey that began on the 18th of September 2015 when the 14th edition of ELSA Moot Court Competition was launched." Mxolisi Ngulube 2015-2016 participant and 2016-2017 coach, University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa.For more information:ELSA Website: emc2.elsa.org Twitter: @elsa_org Email: mootcourts@elsa.org Telephone: +32 2 646 2626About ELSAThe European Law Students' Association (ELSA) is an international, independent, non-political and non-profit-making organisation, which is run by and for law students and young lawyers. Founded in 1981, ELSA is now the world's largest independent law students' association with 50000 members in 43 countries offering career, networking and personal development opportunities.More information: www.elsa.org