Nigerian music has continued to attract listeners, both home and abroad. Now, other nationals are embracing it, as an Israeli-American born musician, Bodega, has crossed over to be part of the music revolution.The singer, who wishes to be known, simply as Ms. Bodega, both on and off stage, opened up on her mission to break barriers with her songs. She said it has been her desire so long to penetrate the industry with her Afro-pop music, a genre not popular where she is coming from. Since her arrival in Nigeria, the entrepreneur has worked with artistes on a number of projects, just as music lovers have lauded her works.Bodega's new music video and campaign is Live Your Life, designed to inspire people to live their lives to the fullest. It featured six international music artistes, including Jamaican superstar, Gyptian, Mc Galaxy, Young D, Neza, and Neil Bajayo. Part of the proceeds will go to charities and foundations that support sustainable education in Africa and help at-risk youth in growth and development.According to her, "Nigerian musicians are the best I have seen and worked with. And in today's popular music of Afrobeat and Afro-pop, they have been able to take their traditional sounds and fit them perfectly into a popular and catchy genre with the perfect blend of sweet melodies, hot rhythms and an energetic dance style. It is no wonder Nigeria is the hub of this genre, which reaches all over Africa and now receiving worldwide attention. I am glad to be part of that dream."Bodega, who is not new to breaking new barriers and taking bold steps, explained that the need to explore has been the motivating factor for her music voyage to different European countries, where she has established herself as, not just a musician, but also a music producer, writer and performer.She said, "I am a true believer in the maxim, 'when in Rome do as a Roman'. This helps me a lot when I travel around the world. When I travel to a country, I like to get to know the culture from the inside as much as possible; eat the foods, learn some of the languages and customs so as to really connect and not only come with the eyes and attitude of a tourist."On sojourn to the music world, Bodega said she had her first contact with music at a tender age, adding, "As a child, I grew up in a music household. My mother was a pianist and composer. I played violin extensively and sang in choirs while growing up. I loved dancing to all the latest music and took dance classes. I became a professional hip-hop and Jazz dancer, among other styles. I always loved blending different sounds and styles and choreographies such as Latin, African, Middle Eastern."