Dr. David Ikudayisi is the Medical Director, Glory Wellness &amp; Regenerative Centre, a multi-specialty health care center, in Lagos and Abuja. Ikudayisi who is based in the United States said he is excited about the prospects of coming back home to help put Nigeria on the continental and global medical map through regenerative medicine. He also spoke on the controversy surrounding embroyonic stem cell therapy among others.What is regenerative medicine all about?Regenerative Medicine is a branch of medicine that aims to restore normal function by repairing or replacing damaged or malfunctioning cells and tissues in patients who have lost tissue or organ function due to age, disease, or congenital defects. It comprises different components including, Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) Therapy and Adult Stem Cell (ASC) Therapy, etc.I was inspired into this branch of medicine when I was looking for alternative ways to alleviate my patients' pain in USA without using addictive pain medications and frequent steroid injections. I discovered the benefits of the Platelet Rich Plasma and/or Adult Stem Cell Therapy for patients who were in need of joint pain relief, youthful appearance, or a restored sexual function.In medical school, we were taught that the central nervous system rarely regenerates, that there is little or no hope for paralyzed patients, and that damaged brain tissue may be a permanent condition, just to name a few.Nowadays, the re-growth of brain cells and improvements of neurological function in spinal cord injured patients have been documented. When applicable, adult stem cell treatment is basically a medical time machine. The results doctors see in medical practice every day is what keeps my drive for the advancement of regenerative medicine.How will regenerative medicine help address health care challenges in Nigeria?Nigeria has a lot of ways to go when it comes to health, as we are recording very poor health indices in recent times. This can be traced to not enough emphasizes on preventive medicine or regenerative medicine. We tend to lose hope at different stages of degrading health rather than come up with solutions that can be attainable no matter the initial cost. If taken without levity, Regenerative Medicine, as in Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) Therapy &amp; Adult Stem Cell (ASC) Therapy, can help reduce our mortality rate in Nigeria, thereby recording better health indices.This branch of medicine holds answers to many questions and problems that we doctors used to believe had no solutions. Many medical conditions that we thought were not treatable are now treatable. We have ample evidence to show the potentials of regenerative medicines for ailments that have domineered our people. The use of these techniques will propel Nigerian healthcare to boundless heights if provided the opportunity.Regenerative medicine has a vast amount of uses especially for people who seek to stop being dependent on taking medications daily, avoid surgery, feel younger and more energized, perform their marital enjoyment at older ages, and prevent the manifestation of some complications of diseases.Many countries around the world are taking advantage of these therapies, and Nigeria should not be left behind. I know this is not an undertaking with quick payoff nationally, but I believe that with these innovations, Nigeria can be the centre for medical tourism in Africa. This is not a cheap option, as most novel innovations never are, but it will pay dividends in the long run, and we have seen proofs of that.Some doctors are already offering regenerative medicine (PRP therapy and ASCT) in Nigeria. So, people don't have to travel abroad to benefit from regenerative medicine. Just ask your doctor if someone in your area is offering ASCT and PRP Therapy.What illnesses does ASCT and PRP therapy treat?The applications of ASCT are enormous, and there is much more to be discovered. To determine if this can be of use in a particular medical problem, just ask if there is a need for repair and/regeneration of any part of the human tissue/organ: if yes, then the ASCT with/without PRP therapy may be an option that will help. The exceptions are non-hematological cancer treatments, as these treatments with stem cells are under investigations/research using tissue engineering.More specifically, these therapies can be used for issues like multiple joint pain, back pain, meniscal tears, ligament tears, avascular necrosis of the hip joints, facet arthropathy, hair thinning, erectile dysfunction, female sexual dysfunction, female urinary incontinence, cosmetic/aesthetic applications (vampire facial, vampire facelift, vampire breast and nipple lift); diabetes, hypertension, anti-aging (generalized treatment), chronic kidney disease, multiple sclerosis, cerebral palsy, spinal cord injury, COPD (lung disease) and infertility (helps to increase fertility chances and not serve as a cure), to mention a few.Why is there controversy around embryonic stem cell therapy?The ethical, religious and moral arguments for and against Embryonic Stem Cell use has been stressed for many years now. Stem cells possess the ability to make new cells needed in the body. Embryonic stem cells are an example of this. In the body, they are what we use to develop the cells we later go on to have.Many scientists prefer it because of its endless possibilities to recreate virtually any type of cell in the body. However, it involves the use of embryos from day 6 to day 14; that is, a baby-to-be in the first two weeks of pregnancy or after In vitro fertilization (IVF). As you can see, this involves tampering with potential or future babies that are yet to be born. This has both religious and ethical issues, leading to the controversy around it.What is the difference between adult stem cell therapy and cloning?It is important to understand that there are three main types of stem therapies. In addition to Embryonic Stem Cell (ESC) therapy, there are also induced Pluripotent Stem Cells (iPSCs) therapy and Adult Stem Cells (ASC)therapy. iPSCs are produced in the lab by reprogramming adult cells to express embryonic stem cells characteristics, and Adult Stem Cells (ASC) are retrieved from individual's bone marrow, adipose (fat) or umbilical cord. Although ASCs can be used for a vast number of therapies, they do not possess the same capabilities as ESCs, but the downside of limited growth and differentiation makes ASCs applicable in medicine today.Cloning on the other hand is the process of producing similar populations of genetically identical organisms to sometimes replace damaged or lost tissues or organs. Every single bit of their DNA is identical to the original specimen. Clones can happen naturally, like identical twins or triplets, or they can be made in the lab, like Dolly the sheep. Reproductive cloning for humans has been banned in several countries, and mainstream scientists consider it unethical.