Port Harcourt &mdash; Governor Nyesom Wike and the All Progressives Congress (APC) are at loggerheads over allegations that chieftains of the party have formed a new cult group to unleash violence on Rivers State.While commissioning the Kpopie-Bodo Road in Gokana local government area, Wike yesterday claimed that the new gang, which goes by the name-new rivers cult group-was formed by leaders of the APC to unleash mayhem and create insecurity in the state.He had specifically accused his predecessor and leader of the APC in the state, Chibuike Amaechi of recruiting members of the group and urged security and law enforcement agencies to call Amaechi to order as the new gang would be resisted by the law abiding Rivers people.He alleged that the gang was inaugurated at a private residence in Woji area of Port Harcourt, after which the sum of N500, 000 was disbursed to leaders from the 23 Local government areas of the state, adding that two APC chieftains have been appointed as coordinators of the group."Let me alert Nigerians. I am only informing Nigerians and security agencies of the crime against Rivers State by the immediate past governor. We have successfully concluded the state amnesty programme for cultists in the state but the former governor has set up another cult group," he added.Wike explained that members of the new gang were assured that they would receive security protection, as they would be armed for the 2019 General elections."I am shouting for the security agencies to hear us. Let nobody allow his son to be used. No amount of cult recruitment can intimidate us. I am calling on the security agencies to call the former governor to order," he said.But APC Publicity Secretary, Chris Finebone described the allegation against the party's leadership as ridiculous and a deliberate attempt by Wike to smear Amaechi."Governor Wike, who had served under Amaechi as his chief of staff, Government House, knows too well that Amaechi has zero tolerance for violence. He knows that the former governor has no time for violence. The last thing Amaechi would tolerate in politics is violence. We think the governor is amusing himself.And if that is the case, he should realize that this joke is one taken too far. Such sense of humour is tragic," he said. He therefore, urged members of the public to dismiss Wike's accusation as baseless.