There are truly few countries on earth able to mix family and adventure at the same time making your holiday escapade never-ending. Ethiopia is the one which will never let you down meeting your African adventure to the fullest. The holiday is an ideal time of visit to enjoy the sights the bites and the celebrations.Whether you like beach and river adventure enjoying swimming and cruising at the sunrise and set. Or the high-rise refreshing mountains allowing you to break your fear of height. Or steam gently at the natural hot springs. Or the ancient places and globally famed architectures or just the lush green forests full of wildlife's you are covered. This most exciting adventure land has natural environments for perfect playground for children and exploration for adults. Experiencing the parks and the surrounding adventures not only offers so much thrills but it's also exceptionally refreshing and edifying about nature.The best part of coming to Ethiopia is that it has so much to offer to all kinds of budget travelers. It offers you anything from private lodges, hotels from Jumia Travel to camping under the stars. Be ready to comfortably take the dream adventure. Here, wildlife, wilderness, and nature's extravaganza offer escapades far away from the regular to the exceptional. In the Ethiopian holiday adventure, you will not only form moments of charming lasting memories but also, moments of focus on the nature loving family.Get your hands on Ethiopia, get out of your village or fly to this East African delight for unforgettable treasured adventure. Family oriented fun activities include spotting wildlife hunting their meal, visiting art and former palace museums, hiking on the towering Mountains and deep valleys visiting ancient architectures, testing foods and visiting traditional organic farms.The epic landscapes of Ethiopia takes you to all kinds of extreme level of adventures. Lace your traveling gears and hit the trail for one of its kind road adventure and horseback ride. Ethiopia's blend of nature and culture with next door heritage temples and obelisks takes any traveler to the next level of experience. Explore the famed fortress of outdoor and indoor attractions to fully enjoy the land of bread and honey. The destination is impressive and warm all year round. If you are not fond of cold and heat then Ethiopia is the right destination offering you everything in moderation.Truly, there is more to Ethiopia. Dismount on other holiday adventures including souvenir and traditional cloth shopping. Visit the cosmopolitan shops and traditional villages for loads of exciting experience. Grip on one of the most stunning attractions of the country.It takes a fun loving family to plan your holiday in Ethiopia, because everything comes in double portion and holidays are no exceptions.The author can be reached at This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.