With few days to the grand finale of the ongoing reality TV show, Big Brother Naija,(#BBNaija), notable Nigerian comedians, rap artists, actors and actress celebrities have taken to social media to drum supports for their favourite housemate.Efe, an up coming rap artist and one of the top five finalists, has become the 'favourite' of some of these celebrities who have taken to social media to campaign for votes for the housemate.Comedian, Bright Okpocha popularly known as Basket Mouth, took to his instagram handle @basketmouth to declare his support and campaign for Efe.'Based on logistics, I think we should help him win. No be to vote and support with mouth."Also, Nigerian street rap act, YBNL boss, Olamide Adedeji also known as 'Baddo' has declared his support for Efe.He wrote on his instagram handle @baddosneh "... As I wobey so na based on logistics #TeamEfe, make una no vex God bless everyone's hustle. #SayNoToTribalism."A popular Nigerian Rap star, Panshak Zamani also known as Ice Price took to his twitter handle @Iceprincezamani to support Efe."EJEBA pls hola at me o... got show for our boy already for this month!!! Lets talk about the logistics ShapShap!! Pls cc #Ejeba #TeamEfe."Similarly, Chocolate City rapper, Jude Abaga also known as Yung Denzl and MI took to his twitter handle @MI_Abaga to called out support for Efe, "Oya Letsssss goooooo #Team Efe!!!!!"A popular Nigerian Rap star, Panshak Zamani also known as Ice Price took to his twitter handle @Iceprincezamani to support Efe."EJEBA pls hola at me o... got show for our boy already for this month!!! Lets talk about the logistics ShapShap!! Pls cc #Ejeba #TeamEfe."Also, Popular Yoruba/Nollywood actress Funke Akindele,also known as Jenifa recently showed her support after she pleaded with viewers via her twitter handle to vote and save Efe for eviction.Nigerian singer, songwriter, performer and Five Star Music artist, Kingsley Chinweike Okonkwo also known as Kcee, showed support for Big Brother Naija Housemate, Efe.Kcee took to his Instagram Page to campaign for the housemate, "Pls Vote Efe, SMS Vote Efe to 32052 , spread the word."Fathia Balogun, Nigerian Actress, Filmmaker, Producer, and Director virtually support Efe.She stressed that they both came out from warri in Delta state.In her campaign to support Efe, she wrote, "I'm a huge fan, so I will not criticize Big Brother; I like Efe Because Efe is Warri and I'm Warri, So warri go Stand For Warri."Annie Idibia, actress and Wife to music star Tuface was also out campaigning for Efe on he instagramme handle @annieidibia1 staing ... EFE For The Win @efemoneyHowever, ex-housemate, ThinTallTony in spite of his closeness to Efe said on his instagram handle @tintalltony that he was rooting for Bisola, his controversial love interest in the house.He wrote, "I am rooting for her, she is amazing and creative... I trust this one. So #TeamTTT lets votes BISOLA to win."Five top finalists including Bisola, Debie-Rise, Efe, Mavis and Tboss would be vying for the grand prize of N25 million and a Kia Sorrento SUV on April 9.Those who have been evicted from the show include Bally, Bassey, CocoIce, Gifty, Kemen, Miyonse,Soma, ThintallTony and UrielOthers are the two fake housemates Jon and Ese.