Ecweru &mdash; This Kyadondo East by-election is turning out like no other. Let me pack some popcorn and settle for live television coverage.Mpuuga: Looks like we might end up with a headline like "Bobi Wine beats Museveni and Besigye in Kyaddondo."Nsereko: If Bobi Wine wins, it will stamp to the claim that politics is no longer a game for politicians. Anyone can just jump in and win.Bahati: But Otafiire was trounced.Anite: Bahati, is that the best you can do?Ecweru: A better example would be our own Lubwama here. From theatre to Parliament and he is legit.Abiriga: Even Babirye.Tumwebaze: Bobi Wine has no chance. His only chance would be if he was under NRM. We are sweeping all by-elections and Kyadondo won't be any different.Munyagwa: The rigging has been terrible. But unlike other places where the media was silent, Kyadondo is in the peri-urban. The media spotlight will defeat your attempts to rig.Anite: Here they come. Rigging, the only excuse these guys ever come up with.Ecweru: Bobi Wine should lose. This business of musicians and other comedians jumping into serious issues like politics should not be entertained.Lokodo: He will lose. Parliament needs serious people, not such unkempt fellows priding themselves in being ghetto linchpins.Fungaroo: I would rate Bobi Wine 70 to Lokodo's 30 if it comes to seriousness in politicking. The curse of this nation started when the likes of Lokodo joined active politics.Lokodo: I didn't eat in your saucepan @Fungaroo.Franca: A Bobi Wine win is good for the People's Government. What we need to come to terms with is that the world is changing, people like Trump are now winning elections.Bahati: While veterans like Otafiire keep losing, right?Okupa: Bahati, this is too much.Munyagwa: Where is the General? He has been quiet for a while.Bahati: Sleeping.[Otafiire is typing]Ecweru: Now look what you got us into.Bahati: Worry not, he will sleep off before he has sent what he is typing?Otafiire: @Bahati, do you know why the White man has invented everything on earth and Mars but failed to invent rain?Bahati: What has that got to do with the issue at hand?Otafiire: Good question, what has my decision to stay off this forum got to do with the issue at hand?Bahati: You are the breed of conventional politicians being defeated by the new brand of upstarts.Otafiire: Since when did you become the cell that shot me to life to declare that I was born a politician?Lokodo: Eh!Ecweru: Now this is not going well.Otafiire: This young man thinks he can fart while nursing acute diarrhoea. Try it, I can promise you right here that you will soil your pants. Don't be so foolish as to tap a sleeping lion.Lubwama: I think I like Otafiire.Nsereko: Bahati, this is what happens when you try to prove that urine is not a good conductor of electricity by peeing on a live wire line.Abiriga: So Otafiire, why have the White men failed to invent rain?Katuntu: I think that is a riddle for Bahati to answer. During the time he is digging up his head for answer, he will be quiet and won't scratch old Ota into typing expletives.Lokodo: Anyway, we were originally discussing amateurs taking over the political landscape, not Otafiire's rain research.Mpuuga: Now Museveni is sending in Military Police. Why do we have to mess a good race in Kyadondo?Anite: Not true. Only police are on the ground.Okupa: Anite, try and verify before rubbishing.Tumwebaze: We need a new law to outlaw Independents. Every candidate must belong to a political party.Munyagwa: That way, Kantinti would win. FDC have been messed up by that Bobi Wine. However, his victory is good for our party.Franca: @Tumwebaze I can see how bad Bobi Wine has fixed you.Lubwama: I think Museveni is going to fire Lumumba because of this.Anite: What?Fungaroo: She is weak; she can't help that party.DISCLAIMER:This is a humour column and the views expressed henceforth may not necessarily be an objective assessment of the individual or group.