Ganta &mdash; The official ground breaking ceremony for a Community Clinic sponsored by Mr. Alexander Benedict Cummings Jr. took place in Neigbien Town just before Ganta City, Nimba County this past weekend.The humanitarian project taken on by Mr. Cummings will cost over $50,000.00 United States dollars. Mr. Cummings is dedicated to helping the people of Liberia, and has a long-supported health projects and relief efforts in Liberia.While serving as Vice President, the Coca-Cola Company joined the fight against the Ebola virus in Liberia by donating several assorted medical items to the National Task Force (NTF) on Ebola.Including a 40-foot container of medical supplies, 450 giant-size containers and buckets, 50,000 cases of Bonaqua mineral water to affected communities and health centers, including ELWA and JFK hospitals, Dolo Town, Margibi County, West Point, Montserrado County and Foya, Lofa County, valued at US$10, 450.00.The company also donated 30 infrared thermometers to twenty hospitals, and 300 hand washing kits to communities surrounding its production site in Paynesville during Mr. Cummings tenure.The company also deposited US$2,000.00 cash into the anti-Ebola Trust Fund at the Central Bank of Liberia.In continuation of such effort, the Coca-Cola Company in Liberia, together with its bottling partner, Equatorial Coca-Cola Bottling Company (ECCBC), presented additional medical supplies to the Ministry of Health in the amount of US$48,000.Separately Mr. Cummings foundation, has donated over $2 million dollars in humanitarian projects in Liberia.Mr. Lawrence Sua, Representative Aspirant for District # 1, Ganta City, Nimba County lead theofficial ceremony.Several speakers including Mr. Alvin Legay, Neigbien Town Chief wholeheartedly welcomed the initiative.Speakers also revealed that since the creation of Nimba, they have not had such a huge philanthropic effort undertaken solely by a private citizen.Also, Mr. George Domah, Paramount Chief Bain-Garr appreciated the development project, and thanked Mr. Cummings for his effort to help the people of Nimba County.Mr. Cummings was recently made Standard Bearer of the ANC, following a county-by-county national primary, the first of its kind in Liberia.A politician, businessman, and philanthropist, Alexander B. Cummings, served most recently as Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer for Coca-Cola's African operations before announcing his run for president of the Republic of Liberia in 2015.He was educated at Cuttington University College in Liberia before furthering his studies at the Northern Illinois University, where he earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Finance and Economics.He earned an MBA in Finance from Clark Atlanta University. Cummings hails an over 40-year career in international business.During his tenure at Coca - Cola he created the Coca- Cola Africa Foundation, and subsequently founded his family's Cummings Africa Foundation which has founded over $1 million U.S dollars in humanitarian projects in Liberia.