Last Thursday, Morgan Heritage, a Grammy award winning reggae band staged a memorable show at Lugogo Cricket Oval.All signs pointed to a successful event and it indeed did not disappoint, going by the huge turn out and memorable performance from the band.Timing of the eventThe concert happened on Holy Thursday which marked the beginning of a long Easter weekend, meaning no work to many. This was well calculated by the organisers because it was well attended.The performancesNo curtain raisers were advertised for this concert, but that could not stop local musicians such as Juliana, Vampino and Jose Chameleone from sharing the stage with the Jamaican band.Juliana was the first on stage, but her RnB jams did not make much impact to the already fired up crowd. Watching from a distance was Vampino who was witnessing what was happening to Juliana, but because his kind of music somehow relates to Reggae, he was able to turn the temple high with his Smart Wire and A Wah Do Dem tracks.However, the artiste who many thought would represent us well ended up being the biggest disappointment of the night. Prior to the event, we learnt that Jose Chameleone had a song with Morgan Heritage, but all the hype he got waned as soon as he was invited on stage by Peetah Morgan. Chameleone forgot the lyrics and kept humming and jumping from one point of the stage to another.Jemere Morgan, son to one of the Morgan Heritage band members known as Gramps, was the first on stage. He did his famous songs like International Love and Try Jah Love which he did with his father.He paved the way for his father and uncles to take the event a notch higher. And when the band stepped on stage at 10.20pm, hell broke loose. Everyone abandoned their seats, shouting on sight of Peetah Morgan, the lead singer.The way he sounds on recordings is exactly the way he does on stage. Much as they performed some songs the crowd did not know, they were never disappointed by the reception they got. And every time they did songs familiar to the audience, hands were raised; phone lights were switched on while others blew cigarette smoke in the air.The band started with 'Strictly Roots' off the strictly roots album that earned them their first Grammy Award in 2015. They followed it up with Tell Me How Come, Don't Haffi Dreads, A Man is Still a Man, Protect Us Jah and Reggae Night among others.They did these in turns with all the brothers being in the lead on different occasions.The organisationThe event was divided into three sections. The ordinary section that cost Shs50,000; VIP Shs120,000 and VVIP Shs300,000. The last bundle were reserved tables and got access to a three meal course and besides that, they got a better view to the stage.The accessibility to the venue was on point with four entries and exists. There was no commotion as is always the case in most concerts.On entering the cricket Oval, you couldn't miss the crystal clear sound that we possibly last heard on Neyo's pop and jam concert.SecuritySecurity has always been the main issue on most concerts and this was not exceptional. Much as there was heavy police presence, many people lost phones and wallets. About five people were arrested in the VVIP section for snatching people's phones.