Transcorp Hotels Plc has announced the reopening of the Executive Floors and Lounge of its flagship Transcorp Hilton Abuja.&nbsp; The reopening marks a milestone in the on-going $100 million renovation project of the historic and award winning 5-star hotel, leading up to its 30th&nbsp;anniversary commemoration this year.The redesign, conceptualized by Swedish interior designer, Living Designs, is inspired by the Nigerian spirit of resilience and evokes strength and boldness while exuding freshness, harmony and maximum comfort. The all-new rooms and suites have been fitted with world-class amenities and latest technology to ensure the ultimate comfort of the Guests.Valentine Ozigbo, Managing Director/CEO, Transcorp Hotels Plc, while speaking on the reopening said, &ldquo;Our guests have grown to expect nothing less than the very best from us. That includes the pinnacle of customer service, overall comfort, and a level of aesthetic appeal rivaled by no other hotel in Nigeria. The complete overhaul of the Executive Floor and Lounge is a testament to our commitment to delivering extraordinary experience to our guests.&rdquo;Also commenting on the new Executive rooms and suites, the General Manager of Transcorp Hilton Abuja, Etienne Gailliez&nbsp;said: &ldquo;We are excited to attain this milestone of our renovation project. Our Guests are really going to love the truly impressive transformation of the Executive Floor Guest rooms and Lounge. We are proud to work with owners who have a deep understanding of our industry and embrace our brand culture of creating a rewarding experience for our Guests,"&nbsp;he concluded.The all-new Executive Floors will continue to deliver luxury&nbsp; to guests as well as an exclusive experience combined with security, with the introduction of access control to the Floors and Lounge.Tony O. Elumelu CON, Chairman Transcorp Plc, while sharing his first impressions of the new Executive Floors said, &ldquo;I have stayed at the Transcorp Hilton Abuja as a guest for decades and I am extremely impressed by the transformation of the Executive Floors.&nbsp; I have no doubt that our guests will be thrilled. I am very proud of the commitment of the team in getting the job done,&nbsp;ensuring that Transcorp Hilton Abuja&nbsp;continues to&nbsp;deliver quality that rivals any 5-star&nbsp;hotel experience&nbsp;in the world&rdquo;, Elumelu stated.The newly unveiled Executive Floors, 186 rooms and suites in total, is only the first milestone in the ambitious upgrade. All 667 rooms and suites of the hotel, the largest Hilton in sub-Saharan Africa, will be overhauled. Guests also have more to look forward to with extensive renovations planned for the lobby areas, banqueting and conferencing facilities, restaurants, bars and the business center. An all-new spa and fully upgraded fitness center will also enhance the hotel&rsquo;s offerings to both lifestyle travelers and business clientele.About Hilton Hotels &amp; ResortsFor nearly a century, Hilton Hotels &amp; Resorts has been proudly welcoming the world's travelers. With 570 hotels across six continents, Hilton Hotels &amp; Resorts provides the foundation for memorable travel experiences and values every guest who walks through its doors. As the flagship brand of Hilton, Hilton Hotels &amp; Resorts continues to set the standard for hospitality, providing new product innovations and services to meet guests' evolving needs. Hilton Hotels &amp; Resorts is a part of the award-winning Hilton Honors program.&nbsp;Hilton Honors members who book directly through preferred Hilton channels have access to instant benefits, including a flexible payment slider that allows members to choose nearly any combination of Points and money to book a stay, an exclusive member discount that can&rsquo;t be found anywhere else, free standard Wi-Fi and digital amenities like digital check-in with room selection and Digital Key (select locations), available exclusively through the industry-leading Hilton Honors app.&nbsp;Begin your journey at&nbsp;www.hilton.com&nbsp;and learn more about the brand by visiting&nbsp;news.hilton.com&nbsp;or following us on&nbsp;Facebook,&nbsp;Twitter&nbsp;and&nbsp;Instagram.About Transcorp Hotels PlcTranscorp Hotels Plc (&ldquo;Company") is the hospitality subsidiary of Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc, owners and operator of Transcorp Hilton Abuja. They provide luxury accommodation, world-class cuisine, conferencing and leisure facilities to business&nbsp;travellers&nbsp;and tourists from all over the world. The Company also holds 100 per cent interest in Transcorp Hotels Calabar Limited, which owns and operates the Transcorp Hotel in Calabar. For more information, please visit&nbsp;website&nbsp;www.transcorphotelsplc.com&nbsp;and&nbsp;www.abuja.hilton.com