Let us consider, for a few minutes, the meaning of the word objectification.Here's what the dictionary says:Objectification: the action of degrading someone to the status of a mere object.In a sentence: "the objectification of women as sexual possessions"So now let us think about what this means. Does this mean that you are not allowed to look at Idris Elba and find him especially attractive, especially if he is shirtless?I don't know. I don't think so. I think there is a stark difference between looking at something and finding it immensely appealing, and wanting to have it because you think it is yours. Just ask Chiko Lawi.Now, there is admiration, and there is objectification - commonly heard when women say things like: "stop objectifying me" and "I'm not just a piece of a**". Question, there are times that people are just a piece of a**, no? I'm truly asking for curiosity's sake. It isn't like when I see Charlie Hunnam topless in King Arthur, I'm going to say, great body, now let me get to know his mind. Not because I wouldn't jump at the opportunity, but because, where will I ever see Charlie Hunnam?I'm not here to argue about the merits and demerits of objectification. What I'm here for is equal opportunity objectification - or admiration, rather, which is what I prefer. Respectful admiration, if you will. And what I'm campaigning for it in is music videos.At this point in human history, we all know what naked bodies look like. We're at the point where we can even tell if they've been surgically enhanced or not - on women, anyway. But where are the naked men?Every single music video and movie, before Game of Thrones et al, has nudity of many forms, which is mostly represented by the female body. Why is that? Do women not like eye candy too? We have beaten this theory to death about women and men's libido (it may not be even, but it is not as far off as men would have you believe). And it isn't just that men are visual creatures. Women are, too. We like some man cleavage every so often. So... what's the problem?ENOUGH WITH THE FUR COATSI think people need to get with the program. Enough with the men in fur coats (Khaligraph, Darassa, Calvo Mistari, I'm looking at you) and the women in bikinis around the pool. Khaligraph literally sang a (great) song called "Naked", and he was dressed for the winter in it the whole time. Strip down a little. No one cares about a bit of body fat. For example, in Dela's music video "Honey", Dela says she loved watching Silvastone work in the studio, and that he was so much fun. She also says the beat got her showing "a different side of me" and it is"definitely her favourite record yet". Now, my favourite part of her favourite record was the man in it, who not only looks like he goes to the gym, but also looks completely devoted to her. I loved it. Topless men should be a requirement in love songs - unless love is a one-way street...And then there is also Timmy Tdat supporting the movement, with his oiled-up body in "Zile Mbili", and Harmonize in "Niambie". This is a revolution that is long overdue. I mean, would kaodo full frontal kill anyone? It certainly hasn't killed anyone who watches anything on HBO, or the people who watched Wonder Woman at Imax last week, me being one of them. I'm still standing. More naked men, please! Or in the very least, topless and in Speedos.