Desirous of drawing attention to the ugly experiences of victims, who are often tricked into prostitution and trafficked to other countries for the infamous trade, Blessing Efe Gbudje's book, The Road Once Taken, has been introduced to the public. It is the story of a young lady, who embarked on a journey to Libya in a bid to escape life's harshness at home in order to fulfill dreams of wealth. She would later realise that once she sets foot on that dangerous road, she would have left behind her freedom and dignity. What is worse, she might never be seen or heard of again!Book reviewer, Mr. Emeka Esogbue, said A Road Once Taken is written in simple language, and that the storyline is very realistic, with actual landmarks and names of places in Libya, which leave readers wondering whether the book is a reality or fiction."The book also contains genuine advice and travelling information to Nigerians going to Libya. These include rules for safety, work and residence requirements, legal advice, with useful contacts. The book is highly priced and is useful to every household - for personal reading, use in schools because it teaches some moral lessons that are particularly useful to our ladies, who believe that Nigeria is a hell of place and that running to several other distant places is where to find milk and honey, whereas Nigeria is even better than many of those places."Author of The Road Once Taken, Gbudje, a student of National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN), said she was inspired to write right from a young age.According to her, the only way to communicate with people and educate them on how to avoid being a prey to such situations is through writing. She pointed out that human trafficking is real and that Nigeria's poor leadership mismanagement that drive people into prostitution must change.According to her, "The only way to correct the craze for greener pastures outside the country is writing. I had started writing the book since 2015. There was a time I even experienced a blackout and didn't know what to do or get the right character. Also by writing something that is meaningful and that can impact lives, Nigerian's reading culture can be improved. So, I aspire to be a total writer, publish more books, including collections of poems and other genres of literature."Chairman of the occasion, Arogundade Shamsudeen, urged the youths to emulate the author by being creative. He stressed that it should be a challenge to them not to wait until the country is rosy before achieving their dreams. Shamsudeen added that young people should embrace their fears, come up with entrepreneurial ideas and technical innovations for the growth and development of Nigeria.