As the popular ponzi scheme, Mavrodi Mundia Moneybox, MMM, has continued to force its participants into further dismay, a new ponzi scheme, Twinkas has emerged to replace it, with a mouth-watering double return on any amount invested.Twinkas started trending with memberships in different categories after MMM could not return the excitement and joys to the faces of its participants days after unfreezing their Mavros, a situation that has left many disappointed.Twinkas has categories which includes: Classic, Professionals, Premium, Ultimate and the Vetreran categories. Twinkas According to the website, Twinkas&rsquo; Classic now has 198,985, Professionals with 117,290; Twinkas Premium with 117,147 members; the Ultimate with 170,322 members and no member registered yet under the Vetreran category. However, any amount invested in each of the categories would attract double the amount after one month maturity. For instance, under Classic, members are expected to invest N5,000 with V10,000 return Investment; and subscribers on the Professional platform would invest N10,000 and with N20,000 Return.Under the Premium level of N20,000 investment, investors would get N40,000; Ultimate with contribution of N50,000 attracts N100,000 return. The Veteran scheme is N100,000 investment with a return of N200,000 but no one has yet to invest on the platform. Regulatory/Warning mechanism of the ponzi scheme: According to the scheme, www.twinkas.com, Twinkas said it was created &ldquo;to promote the greatest good, with a particular emphasis on helping man and the environment&rsquo;&rsquo;. It said that it had successfully revised all technical and logical issues about the front-end and has provided mobile numbers to help facilitate the money exchange process.&ldquo;We are gradually restoring our CRM Modules (Live Chat, Ticket, Mobile Calls) to enable us get in touch with you regularly. &ldquo;We have switched to STRICT MODE. Meaning zero tolerance. Hence, we will not entertain any form of uncanny behaviour from sponsors/downlines.&rsquo;&rsquo; Twinkas has rolled out some conditions, including the warning that prospective investors must keep their mobile phones open most of the times and be online in order to succeed.&ldquo; If a sponsors mobile is switched off or not answering calls for about 6 Hours, Twinkas will have that account blocked. &ldquo; If a sponsor fails to activate his/her referral after receiving payment, Twinkas will have that account and subsequent accounts connected to your bank and mobile number blocked. &ldquo; You are advised to have an online banking Application on your mobile phone to help facilitate the process. Mobile numbers will be displayed on your dashboard. Please save them and do not receive any call from other lines claiming to have emanated from Twinkas.&rsquo;&rsquo; It warned investors against pestering any of the numbers for trivial Issues.&ldquo;These numbers should be called only in the cases of emergency, hacked accounts or other serious Twinkas related issues. &ldquo;Use the &ldquo;Live Support&rdquo; and the Ticketing System (Still in View) for only serious Twinkas Issues also. We know those working hard for Twinkas, your reward will be a surprise!.&rsquo;&rsquo;