Freedom of expression is increasingly challenged in Uganda in spite of the clear protection provided in Uganda's Constitution. Public debate and dialogue is key to fostering sustainable development. Yesterday as the Nordic countries - Denmark, Iceland, Norway and Sweden - jointly celebrate our national days in Kampala, we encourage Uganda to strengthen efforts to ensuring freedom of expression for all.The Nordic countries share many common values: Perhaps the most cherished and important is our commitment to freedom of expression and of the press - a value shared beyond our shores and a legally binding commitment for all the 169 parties to the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights.This is not a recent development. Sweden was the first country in the world to pass a Freedom of the Press Act - more than 250 years ago - recognising that all citizens have the right to freely seek information, organise demonstrations, form political parties and practice their religion.It should then not be a surprise that the protection and promotion of human rights is at the core of our countries' agendas, at home, in Uganda, and all over the world. Sadly, today we see widespread assaults on human rights and journalism across the globe. It is an increasingly dangerous profession.It is important to remember that freedom of expression is not a luxury to be considered when other development goals have been met. Freedom of expression is a must - at every step of the way.Freedom of expression is necessary for a public employee to speak up if she sees mismanagement; for a private company to lodge a complaint if they are solicited for a bribe; to let a widow fight for her right to remain on her land; to let a local community petition Parliament and government when a speculator tries to cheat them; to let Opposition parties peacefully dispute a government's chosen policies. To put it simply - freedom of expression is necessary for sustainable development and political stability.Article 29 of the Constitution of Uganda provides clear and unambiguous protection of freedom of expression. Uganda has an active and vibrant media scene, especially in comparison with many other countries of the region.It is thanks to the work of the Ugandan media that the appalling recent accounts of police torture have come to light. Parliament is now looking into these cases. The facts must be investigated and the perpetrators - and those who allowed this to go on - must face justice.Recent developments in the media give cause for concern. Since the run-up to the general elections 2016, we have seen increasing limitations on freedom of the press: Media and social media shutdowns, ongoing arrests, threats and harassment of journalists and bloggers are very worrying.Reporting on last year's Kasese attacks has been notably subdued and we are no closer to an objective understanding of the events. We regret that Uganda has not yet launched a comprehensive and independent investigation.The case against Dr Stella Nyanzi is deeply troubling. Whether you find her offensive or refreshing, she should be allowed to express herself. These threats and abuses have created an environment where self-censorship is the order of the day for many journalists and media practitioners.The Nordic countries are strong and committed partners of Uganda, as we have been for many years. We hope we can continue to work with Uganda to strengthen the protection of human rights. And we will continue to support Uganda's development by promoting sustainable and inclusive economic growth based on broad political participation and gender equality.We encourage the government to intensify its efforts to promote respect for human rights throughout the country. Freedom of expression matters because it generates new ideas, promotes innovations and creativity. A free and independent media remains what it has always been - the cornerstone of democracy.Ms Eckey the Norway Ambassador to Uganda.