Last week, the Dutch community in Tanzania gathered at the residence of the ambassador of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to mark King's Day, the country's national day. The event was attended by senior government officials, politicians and the members of the business community. Ambassador JAAP FREDERIKS granted BERNARD JAMES of The Citizen a brief interview on issues touching on the 50-year-plus partnership between the two countries. Excerpts:Question: What is the key message you want to send today as you mark your country's national day?Answer: We as the Dutch community regardless of its NGOs believe that government core business is helping to build Tanzania, making Tanzania a strong society in which there is inclusive economic growth that all Tanzanians benefit from not only a small group of Tanzanian, a Tanzania with an open society, with open media and where there is freedom of the press and everyone has the opportunity to participate in building of the nation.What are the Dutch companies investing here in Tanzania?There are many investors--there is BAM International building the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) and the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA). A lot of your hospitals are using Philips medical equipment, KLM flies every day to Dar es Salaam and there are many investments in agriculture. Shell is the largest foreign investor here in Tanzania.So there are many Dutch companies successfully doing business here in Tanzania. We believe that we have a lot of expertise in the areas of agriculture, energy and infrastructure that we would like to share with you.We believe that if Tanzania wants to develop, it has to have open borders for foreign investors from all over the world. So the more Tanzania is open and obstacles to trade diminishes the more easier it will become for foreign companies to come and invest successfullyYou meet quite often with Dutch companies investing here in Tanzania. What are they speak of the current business environment?I think if you are a new investor here in Tanzania you will want a smooth acquisition of work permit for your essential staff, that it is clear which taxes applies and not, if a company has to wait each financial year to see if taxes change that is very difficult to do business because the companies coming to invest here do not come to make one deal, they come for a because the investments are large scale.Tanzania is not an easy country to start so if you decide to invest in Tanzania you do it to stay. And predictability of trade, immigration and tax policy is very important in business.What are opportunities for the Tanzania business community to benefit from you country?I think there is a lot of Tanzanian businesses in the Arusha area that can work with Dutch companies exporting vegetables and flowers to Europe. There is a lot of opportunities there. If there would have not been Tanzania private sector companies and tourism, KLM would have not been flying here every day.So improving the services in the hotels, in the restaurant, improving the buses taking tourist from KIA to Tarangire Park. Those are kind of things that can improve the business opportunities here. Because you understand that you will be competing Kenyans, you are competing with Ethiopia and South Africa, so people have the choice. You have beautiful parks, beautiful animals but sometimes it is expensive and the quality is not really up to standard compared to what you would get in South Africa. So improving services... improving what you do for tourists is important to keep them.What is your assessment of the current political and democratic situation in Tanzania?My Personal assessment is that I am very happy with emphasis on anti-corruption of the president because corruption has always been very bad obstacle in confidence for the government but also an obstacle to business. I believe that in an open society in which there is a free press and free media and strong institutions that help the president in exposing corruption.Therefore these are two pillars of transparency and accountability that this country need. I think the president does not use them enough for his own agenda.Tanzania has embarked in industrialisation drive which is government's main agenda in revamping the economy. Having come from an industrialised country, what do you think is the best approach for a successful industrialisation for Tanzania?I think industrialisation in a modern world is only possible with open borders with little focus on tariffs. Nowadays if you want to make a mobile phone, some of its components will come from Spain, others will come from China and Malaysia and they are being put together in different places. If you want to industrilise you don't think only of finished products but also of components.And if your labour productivity is not good, if the education level of you people is not good or if you have import duties that are too high those companies would not want to make those components here in Tanzania.Therefore I believe that the emphasis on trade facilitation is very important; reducing the import duties but also just try to build people's education because at the end investing in people is core in development.