Abuja and Maiduguri &mdash; The new postings were disclosed in a statement by the Director, Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Sani Usman.The Nigerian Army has redeployed the Theatre Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole and 146 other senior officers as part of strategies to reposition the counter-insurgency operation in the North-East.The new postings were disclosed in a statement by the Director, Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Sani Usman. The statement reads: "In a posting released by the office of the Military Secretary (Army), last week, Maj.-Gen. R.O. Yusuf, Commander, Nigerian Army Ordnance Corps is now the Commander Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC), Minna, while Maj.-Gen. A Oyebade, General Officer Commanding (GOC), 1 Division Nigerian Army will move to Army Headquarters as Chief of Logistics."Also, Maj.-Gen. A.M. Dikko has been posted from the Office of the National Security Adviser to 1 Division as GOC, while Maj-Gen. I. Attahiru is now the Theatre Commander, Operation Lafiya Dole."The statement further said Maj.-Gen. Lucky Irabor has been redeployed to Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) as the Field Commander. While Maj-Gen. P.J. Dauke has been redeployed from 3 Division to 81 Division as GOC, Brig.-Gen. B.I. Ahanotu is now Acting GOC 3 Division.Usman said the Registrar of the Nigerian Defense Academy, Brig.-Gen. I.M. Yusuf will be the Acting GOC 7 Division, while Brig-Gen. S.O. Olabanji, the Commandant of Amphibious Training School Calabar is now the Acting GOC 8 Task Force Division.Other postings, according to the statement, are "The GOC 81 Division, Maj.-Gen. E.B, Oyefolu is now the Commander, Nigerian Army Training Centre (NATRAC), Kontagora, while Brig-Gen. M.G. Ali has been moved to Nigerian Army Special Forces School, Buni Yadi as Commandant, from NATRAC."Similarly, Brig.-Gen. I.M. Obot is Brigade Commander 26 Task Force Brigade, while Brig-Gen. A.O. Quadri will move from the Office of the Chief of Army Staff to 25 Task Force Brigade as Commander."