Just like I had known it would be, Lugogo was crawling with a bevy of Kampala's socialites, not to mention the press.A large number of photographers had positioned themselves strategically at the entrance so they could get snapshots of any person of interest that arrived and as soon as they saw Chris and I walk in with C.G, they immediately began clicking away on their cameras.While Chris was comfortable with the attention, even posing so they could get better shots, I was a lot more camera-shy and buried my head into C.G's neck as I quickly moved on.Once we were past them, Chris turned to me accusingly: "You could have been more cooperative with the photographers.""Why? The spotlight is your thing, Chris, not mine, or C.G's for that matter; you would do well to remember that," I retorted irritably."Well, could you at least act like we're a family for the next few hours while we're here, if that's not too much to ask?" he answered sarcastically, and then quickly replaced his frown with a smile as he spotted the marketing manager of one of the brewery companies making his way towards us."Roger! It's been a while, good to see you; how's business?" Chris greeted him gaily."Business is great, thanks, good to see you again my man, and with your beautiful wife and son too, I see," Rogers smiled at me, including me in his greeting before turning his attention back to Chris: "Actually speaking of business, you should come grab a drink at our tent and we could have a bit of a chat; we've got a couple of events coming up that I think you might be interested in.""That sounds like a plan; honey shall we?" Chris turned to me."I think the drinks at that tent are probably a bit too strong for C.G and I," I laughed lightly, then as I saw his smile tighten, added soothingly, "But you guys go ahead, and C.G and I will go find that kids' corner you mentioned. You can find us there once you've had your chat."Although I could tell he was not amused by my response, Chris could hardly kick up a fuss with a potential sponsor standing right there, and so he nodded his agreement, and then turning back to Rogers with a smile said, "Let's go grab that drink you mentioned."I was watching C.G bouncing happily on one of the castles in the kids' corner, a wide smile on his face, when suddenly his smile grew even wider."Uncle!" he yelped excitedly while looking past me, and quickly clambering off the bouncy castle.I turned round to see who the "uncle" was that had excited him so much, but in the pit of my stomach, I knew who it was before I even saw him - Greg. And he was standing right behind me."Hi Stephanie," he greeted me softly as our eyes met."Hi Greg," I answered as I took an involuntary step backwards to create a bit more distance between us. My heart was racing, and there were butterflies fluttering crazily in my stomach, and I could tell my face was getting flushed.As C.G reached us, Greg picked him up."Hey little man, how are you doing?""Fine. We go voom voom.""Ha ha, not today, my friend," Greg laughed, and I smiled softly at the memory of the incident that had set such a fast- moving stone rolling."How is Chris?" Greg asked as he turned his attention back to me, and my smile dropped as the moment I had been dreading came to pass."He's fine.""So, it's true then - you have gone back to him," he said, his tone almost accusing, and yet questioning at the same time."Yes."