The Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja reopened to normal flight operations yesterday, after six weeks of shutdown.The airport was closed March 8, 2017 for runway repairs, and traffic diverted to the Kaduna International Airport.It's not just the runway that was rehabilitated; the whole airport received a makeover with Terminal D completely fixed for departure flights.The contract for the runway repair was awarded to Julius Berger Nigeria Plc at N5.8 billion. It was certified fit for use on Monday April 17, 2017 (a day before April 18 as announced earlier) by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA).The work started on the 3.6km runway from runway 04 and ended at runway 22. The asphalting work was completed since Tuesday and the runway lighting installations also done.The 3.6km Abuja airport runway, built to last for 20 years had lasted for 35 years without major maintenance effort, a situation that led to the total failure of parts of the runway. This ruled out the possibility of working the runway in piecemeal, as suggested by some stakeholders.Though it cost the federal government over N9 billion - N5.8bn on the contract, N1.1bn to fix Kaduna airport, N1.1bn on logistics and N1.1bn to fix the Abuja-Kaduna expressway - beside the loss in some revenue streams at the Abuja airport, Sen. Hadi Sirika, Minister of State for Aviation, said the losses could not compensate for fatalities if the runway was traded on the altar of economic gains."The runway was designed to last 20 years but it has lasted for 35 years without any significant work on it. The total architecture of the runway failed thereby touching on the safety component of our operations which we cannot negotiate. So we better stay safe than do something stupid. We decided to close down the airport and make a total rehabilitation of the runway itself in the interest of safety," he said."Many options were advanced, including working at night and working in the day time while the airport still ran but the integrity of the runway as it were wouldn't allow for such and it would take a long time to complete," he added.The rehabilitated runway is coming with additional features. There is a new technology where glass glide is put in the process of constructing the runway to give it extra strength and prevent cracks. The minister said that was the first time any Nigerian runway was treated with such material, adding that the runway had some undulated surfaces but which had been fixed to near even level.Sirika said with these features and the maintenance programme that are being put in place, the runway should last for at least 10 years.But beyond the runway, there are other add-ons that the Abuja international airport will be serving after reopening. These include a new terminal - D-wing - that has been long abandoned.When our correspondent visited the airport, the D-wing wore a significant new look. The air-conditioning system was being concluded, the paint work had almost finished, and the escalator was being done. The chairs for the passengers' waiting area where fixed and other decorations and finishing were been worked on.FAAN said Air Peace, Arik Air and Dana Air will operate from that facility adding that it will save their passengers having to trek down to the B-wing to board their flights as the D-wing was also coming with its fingers for flight boarding.But it is not only the D wing that is being rehabilitated, the B wing and C wing (international wing) are also having huge reconstruction. A new lift has been installed at the B wing and the physically challenged have also been factored into the remodelling.Also, the entire air-conditioning system is done as well as the toilet facilities. The terminal is also coming up with new VIP lounges and other facilities.The rehabilitated terminal building indeed has better ambiance, space and comfort as the Abuja airport opened Tuesday, the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Manager, Mahmoud Sani, told our correspondent.