On December 13, 1981, the music industry suffered a terrible loss when Cornelius Cardew was killed in a mysterious hit-and-run accident in London. The following year, Robert Ssentamu Kyagulanyi, aka Bobi Wine, was born in Uganda.Fast forward, the first time I watched a music video by Bobi Wine, I told my wife and my friend Johnson that the young man was destined for politics because he had a good mouth on him. So, when he joined the race to stand for Kyadondo East MP, I wasn't surprised at all. What surprised me was actually FDC fielding a candidate against him.Like it or not, Bobi Wine (whatever that means) is more popular than any of his opponents in the Kyadondo East race. A lot of people in Uganda seem to translate their love of music (and the arts) into "support for anything", which I would characterize as a liberal instinct.I am rather moderate on this issue because I don't listen to music that much, but I like Bobi Wine's songs in particular. He reminds me of Cardew. Cardew was perhaps more interesting for his politics than his compositions.But the interesting thing about Cardew is that sometime in the 1970s, he was either told or he realised that modern music did not appeal to working class audiences and gave it all up to write revolutionary songs.Cardew would later become active on various causes in British politics.Finally, in 1981, he was killed by a hit-and-run driver in east London while returning from a political meeting. The driver was never found. There are rumours that this was a political assassination.But what is relevant is to investigate how and if a particular political view of a composer is reflected in his/her music. Does such a composer just sing or they actually believe in a certain political ideology?We all saw opportunist artistes during the 2016 general elections who benefitted from the so-called Tubonga Nawe project headed by Bebe Cool. Very few people were convinced that these artistes were praising President Museveni because they thought he was the best leader that Uganda needed. They only composed those songs for money.The bottom line is that what someone composes ultimately determines how he/she will be remembered. Good luck to Bobi Wine and other candidates in the race!Abbey K.Semuwemba,UK.What explains aptitude testsOn my way to Mbale from Kampala recently, I boarded YY coach. In that bus, I sat next to a man and a woman. As the journey progressed, the lady told us a story of her unemployed son. She said: "I have a son who graduated many years ago. He has been applying to various places and looking for jobs in different offices in vain.Recently, when Public Service Commission (PSC) advertised jobs, my son applied and specifically he applied for the post of assistant secretary at the office of the president for which he believed he had all necessary qualifications. He was shortlisted for an aptitude test that was scheduled to take place at Namboole stadium.He came back and told me they had been asked things like roman numeral numbers, compass direction, algorithm, family ties, etc!"This narrative reminded me of similar stories I had read in the media about thousands of applicants that had thronged Namboole 'fighting' for less than 130 jobs. Then I was left wondering why this woman's son was asked questions that did not relate to the job.Has Uganda National examination Board (Uneb) and universities lost credibility that even after graduating, one has to be subjected to questions akin to exams set by Uneb and universities? Adverts for such jobs usually state that one's minimum requirement is a degree.By allowing thousands and instilling false hopes in poor souls who had come from different parts of the country to sit this test, one wonders which criteria public service commission used to determine who had failed or passed?These among other questions throbbed into my mind. Unfortunately, we reached our destination when none of us had found answers for them.Kenedy Musekura,Budget speech was goodAs the finance minister read out the national budget, a list of the best and worst performing ministries was named. For the worst-performing ministries, I think officials in the concerned fields owe Ugandans an apology.However, in my opinion, the good deeds override the bad. The minister talked about the Standard Gauge Railway which is soon starting, the increase in power generation, World Bank-funded projects, renovation of the old banker at the Uganda cancer institute, Operation Wealth Creation, etc.Reading the budget in Kampala proves that Uganda is a sovereign state that brings together the president, his cabinet, justices, members of parliament, civil society organisations, and Ugandans at large. As the new financial year begins, we hope to see many projects prosper under the directive of the president.Jackie N Mayega,Why did Rugunda avoid Apaa?Sections of locals in Amuru and Gulu districts are concerned that the government delegation of June 12, 2017 led by the Prime Minister Ruhakana Rugunda did not reach Apaa, the scene of clashes between the Acholi and Madi communities.According to the affected community in Amuru, the prime minister was expected to visit the scene before meeting with leaders, or hold the meeting at the scene, for that was the main reason for the visit, at least according to them.Rumours are that the delegation didn't reach Apaa for fear of alleged nude protest which was reportedly awaiting them at the scene, an allegation which the community refutes. Other unofficial sources indicate the delegation had no time for Apaa, given their tight schedule for Adjumani, etc. So, what exactly happened?It is, therefore, important that the delegation clears the air regarding their no-show at Apaa.Bernard O Odida,concerned citizen.Museveni speech was full of self-gratification"My long stay in power makes me more experienced," said President Museveni during the state-of-the-nation address.Surely, without refuting his experience, must he remind us of his grip on power? Besides, what new thing would Ugandans have expected from this address? This has now turned into a self-gratification ceremony for the head of state.The president continued to demonstrate himself as a super micromanager. He kept using the term "I" to refer to the achievements of his government. I think he intentionally excluded his officers in government ministries, departments and agencies for purposes of reaffirming his unrivaled slogan, "the only man with a vision".On security uncertainty, the president was quick to distance himself from it, citing dents in security agencies as the cause.Well, that reminds one of what the controversial South African politician Julius Malema once opined. Malema said: "When police reduce crime, you come here and say the ANC [government] has reduced crime. When police kill people, you don't want us to come here and say the ANC government has killed people".Badru Walusansa,Commonwealth correspondent.