A few months ago, the minister of Agriculture Vincent Sempijja visited two large coffee farms in Tooro and Mpigi (formerly West Mengo). The Tooro operation set on very fertile ground is more than two square miles. The one in Mpigi was set on about 200 acres.After these visits, he posted on social media how well the Mpigi farmer was doing or expected to be doing arriving at a conservative estimate of about $290,000 (Shs1b) in annual income, a princely sum.A few people questioned him how he arrived at the figures given the fact that unlike most crops, coffee yields are fairly known. Most of this information is carried by the Uganda Coffee Development Authority website even though it could benefit from updating.In the last few years, a few sectors have crashed or reached life support in the agricultural sector.Top among the loss-makers are poultry farmers victims of sub-standard animal feeds sold in the country. Uganda imports most of its commercial birds from Europe most of which can barely survive local diseases and poor feeds on the market.The standards regulator, Uganda National Bureau of Standards (UNBS) does not have the capacity to inspect animal feeds. Piggery with its promise of cheap meat has impoverished farmers who cannot keep up with rising prices of maize bran.A kilo of maize flour is now Shs2,800-Shs3,000. Farmers cannot compete with these prices. Protein reinforcements necessary for rapid meal to meat conversion ratios are a scam most feed producers cannot afford to sell properly mixed feeds leading farmers to incur losses.The cattle sector long identified as a step on the wealth ladder for vulnerable populations including single women has a slightly different problem as cows can consume a wider variety of foods available in the homestead and the villages including wild grasses.Naads and Operation Wealth Creation reported vast losses last year due to drought that hit most of the country. The rate of successful artificial insemination is low, far from the minimum of 25 per cent success rate below which it simply impoverishes farmers. The veterinary animal sector has suffered marginalisation since 1991 when it was folded into Ministry of Agriculture.Since that time, the districts in the cattle corridor have produced a string of state ministers; Kezimbira Miyingo, Mary Rutamwebwa Mugenyi, Bright Rwamirama and now Joy Kafura Kabatsi. Very little attention is paid outside the cattle corridor.In fisheries, a lot of excitement came with introduction of commercial fishing a few years ago. Government battled tales of privatisation of Lake Victoria, which has sucked the fortunes of fish farmers. As is the story in all the above, the political salesmanship of these programmes has been overtaken by reality.Aquaculture was introduced without quality control of seed material and feeds. A fish is supposed to attain an ideal weight of one kilo in six months with optimum feeding.The problem is that the market price of the fish is about Shs6,000 or barely break-even given the cost of feeds. This excludes cost of hardware, security and other risks of farming in open spaces on the lake. Average quality of feeds on the market yield a fish of 400 grams or less in one year contributing to back-breaking losses.Many cooperatives and individuals have wiped out their savings in these ventures. So, by the time Fisheries, another neglected sector, returned to focus on traditional fish capture, it found an environment reluctant to enforce the ban on illegal fishing. All sorts of watercraft were plying the lake scavenging reproduction grounds.The standard for watercraft on the lake according to Fisheries officials is 28 feet long. Smaller craft cannot survive turbulence of the lake.UNBS, as in many cases, failed to prevent importation of illegal nets and the markets in the Congo were an assured opportunity for those willing to take the risk until armed gangs began presenting a law enforcement threat.So, this push into agriculture needs more recasting and alignment to deliver.Mr Ssemogerere is an Attorney-at-Law and an Advocate.