The Housemates took part in a new Task which tested their memory in the Memory Box Task. Blindfolded, the Housemates had to feel the items inside the box and guess what it was. There were ten boxes with ten items that they had come across during their stay in&nbsp;the House. They didn't feel too confident after their first round, but they soldiered on. After another round, four winners, TBoss, Bisola, Debie-Rise and Efe were announced.In keeping with this week's theme of Nostalgia, the Housemates were tasked with a cook-off using Indomie Instant Noodles. They got stuck in and Efe was announced the winner in the Arena after they had presented their meals to Biggie.The Housemates were in for a treat as Davido, fresh from conquering Biggie's stage. In came sushi and champagne and Davido had a long stay in the House with his adoring fans hanging on every word he had to say. He advised them, as others had before to be true to themselves. He asked them what they would do with the money if they won it. Some wanted to further their music careers, Marvis said she would open a bar, smart lady. Davido did advise them to be careful with their money as it could go very quickly.The Housemates had their first Diary Session since Bally had left and everyone felt relieved that they had made it to the final week. Biggie asked them all who their greatest competition was. See what they said below:The ladies spoke to Efe about the fact that seeing a psychologist after leaving the House was a good idea. See his response below:Meanwhile, Bisola and TBoiss continued their recent thawing of relations when they had a long heart to heart chat. Bisola was once again telling TBoss that she should stop bveing so negative as she had everything going for her. She repeated that the only regret she had was prjudging TBoss. She then opened up to TBoss about the struggles she had with her "baby daddy." There seems to be a friendship blooming, or is it a case of strategy from both sides right until the final day. Keep watching on DStv and GOtv to see the finale of this thrilling and fascinating game.