Santa Clara, California &mdash; CloudStorm addresses cloud-scale volumes of traffic and provides high resolution accuracy for latency measurementsBased on its recent analysis of the application and network security test market, Frost &amp; Sullivan recognizes Ixia with the 2017 Global Frost &amp; Sullivan Award for New Product Innovation. Ixia's CloudStorm&trade;, the first multi-terabit (Tb) network security test platform, supports the increased capacity of hyper-scale cloud-based data centers at nanosecond granularity. A single CloudStorm card is capable of generating 3.5 million application flows per second by employing the latest technologies in network processors and field-programmable gate arrays (FPGA).Photo: https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/482723/Frost_and_Sullivan_IXIA_Award.jpgCloudStorm focuses on diverse applications in data centers, including storage assignments as well as server and network security. It offers the unprecedented performance of 2.4 Tb of throughput, 42 million sessions per second, and 1.4 billion simultaneous sessions in a full chassis.The solution has multiple benefits for multiple stakeholders. For instance:It enables customers to address secure socket layers (SSL) and devise distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) mitigation strategies.Network equipment vendors (NEMs) are able to validate next-generation 100G application delivery controllers and firewalls, and bring their products to market faster.Cloud service providers and enterprises to measure the availability and resiliency of the data centers they are deploying so they can arrive at a best-fit security policy. With a hardware platform capable of supporting various speeds, CloudStorm eliminates the need for additional hardware to support each speed. This not only decreases capital expenditure, but also simplifies management and reduces data center and pre-deployment lab costs for space, cooling and electricity."CloudStorm is in a unique position to support data center operators in balancing security requirements with superior quality of experience (QoE) as network traffic moves toward total encryption," said Frost &amp; Sullivan Industry Analyst Mariano Kimbara. "Its customer-centric approach presents customers with a unified platform for application and security testing. Customers can now emulate the magnitude of different applications for the most comprehensive range of security vectors. Compared to existing solutions, CloudStorm delivers four times the SSL emulation scale."Furthermore, CloudStorm combines the functionalities of BreakingPoint and IxLoad and is available in two versions--CloudStorm Fusion, which combines both solutions, and an IxLoad-only version. IxLoad focuses on application performance and QoE validation. It can validate the performance of over-the-top (OTT) servers, session initiation protocol (SIP) gateways, and wide area network (WAN) optimization controllers. Breakingpoint, on the other hand, emphasizes security network testing due to the large volume of applications and breadth of threat vectors."Ixia has made significant contributions to the market with its leading application and network security test solutions, evolving from PerfectStorm and now CloudStorm," noted Mariano Kimbara. "Its solution provides a holistic experience that will enhance the business value proposition of its customers, and is richly deserving of the 2017 Global Frost &amp; Sullivan Award for New Product Innovation."Each year, Frost &amp; Sullivan presents this award to the company that has developed an innovative element in a product by leverage leading-edge technologies. The award recognises the value-added features/benefits of the product and the increased ROI it gives customers, which in turn raises customer acquisition and overall market penetration potential.Frost &amp; Sullivan Best Practices awards recognize companies in a variety of regional and global markets for demonstrating outstanding achievement and superior performance in areas such as leadership, technological innovation, customer service, and strategic product development. Industry analysts compare market participants and measure performance through in-depth interviews, analysis, and extensive secondary research to identify best practices in the industry.About Frost &amp; SullivanFrost &amp; Sullivan, the Growth Partnership Company, works in collaboration with clients to leverage visionary innovation that addresses the global challenges and related growth opportunities that will make or break today's market participants. For more than 50 years, we have been developing growth strategies for the global 1000, emerging businesses, the public sector and the investment community. Contact us: Start the discussion.Contact:Chiara CarellaP: +44 (0) 207.343.8314F: 210.348.1003E: chiara.carella@frost.com