Last week in a speech to the U.S.-Africa Business Summit sponsored by the Corporate Council on Africa, Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross signaled that there would be continuity in U.S. commercial policy to Africa.Ross struck a positive tone and noted that President Trump described Africa as a &ldquo;place of opportunity&rdquo; at the May G-7 meeting in Taormina, Italy. The secretary also noted that the strong growth in U.S. exports to Africa over a 15-year period, total trade is up over the same timeframe, and the U.S. trade deficit with Africa has declined.As he put it, the U.S. has to continue the transition from aid to trade in its relationship with Africa, an approach consistent with the Clinton, Bush, and Obama administrations. With key senior Africa positions still unfilled, especially at the State Department and the National Security Council, Ross&rsquo; remarks are a step forward in filling the gap on Trump&rsquo;s Africa policy.Here were Ross&rsquo; key points:Clearly, several themes were missing from the secretary&rsquo;s remarks. There was no reference to regional integration, a trend critical to accelerating growth on the continent, creating larger markets, and attracting more U.S. investment and exports.The European Union&rsquo;s Economic Partnership Agreements, which threaten to put U.S. goods and services at a significant commercial disadvantage across the region, also received no mention. Support for small and medium U.S. companies entering the African market was only mentioned in passing. There were no new U.S. initiatives proposed.On balance, however, Ross reassured many in the U.S. and Africa who have been looking for an indication of the Trump administration&rsquo;s commercial policy toward the continent.Adesina challenges the U.S.&nbsp;Indeed, Akinwumi Adesina, the president of the African Development Bank, seemed to signal as much in his remarks following the secretary. Adeptly playing to his American audience, Adesina started with a call to &ldquo;let us be great together,&rdquo; and noted that Africa offers investors &ldquo;the deal of the century.&rdquo;The African Development Bank president, however, went on to challenge the Trump administration to shift from not just aid to trade but to investment as well. Adesina made the point, implicitly, that the U.S. is falling behind when it comes to its presence in the African market.In sharp contrast to Ross&rsquo;s positive rendering of U.S.-Africa commercial trends, Adesina noted that U.S. exports to Africa have declined from $38 billion in 2014 to $22 billion in 2016. Africa&rsquo;s exports to the U.S. have declined even more sharply, according to Adesina, $113 billion in 2008 to $26.5 billion in 2005. And, as is well known, China is Africa&rsquo;s largest trade partner, with $102 billion in exports in 2015.To underscore his message, Adesina pointed out that Africa&rsquo;s key partners have launched substantial initiatives toward Africa: Japan at $30 billion, China at $60 billion, and South Korea at $10 billion. India has also opened a $10 billion soft credit window.The good news from last week&rsquo;s U.S.-Africa Business Summit is that the Trump administration appears to understand the importance of the African market. As well, Ross was clear in his advocacy for U.S. business success on the continent. However, as Adesina made clear, there is commercial competition across the continent that will only get stronger.Witney Schneidman is Nonresident Fellow - Global Economy and Development, Africa Growth Initiative. His blog was published by Brookings on June 26.