Amir Yasin Kaggwa, the Imam of a mosque in Luzira/Butabika, was arrested by suspected security operatives at Port Bell in Luzira on June 5, 2017.A guard at the port identified as Nuwagaba called him to meet some customers who wanted solar panels. The two customers immediately handcuffed him, pushed him into a private saloon car and drove him away.The Imam was in the company of a colleague called Abdul Malik Ssenabulya, who was asked to surrender his cellular phone. The solar panel customers (operatives) went with it. They later returned for the owner of the phone and also whisked him away.Co-wives tend to keep an antagonistic relationship but fate of a missing husband has unified Amir Kaggwa's two wives. They narrated their ordeal to this columnist at the FDC headquarters on Monday, July 3. I had just completed the party's weekly press briefing.The two wives: Aisha Atwiire and Hajarah Nakyanzi told me they have reached several police stations in search of their husband to no avail. At Luzira police, they were advised to check at Kampala Central Police Station (CPS). After failing at CPS, they went to Mbuya military barracks.The soldiers at Quarter Guard told them they only detain military people there. They then went to Jinja road police station where they were told "your husbands are in safe police hands." It is now a month and the safe hands have not only violated our Constitution, which requires presentation of suspects to court within 48 hours, but are still holding them incommunicado.And with Nalufenya still rearing its ugly head over us, one can't be sure these fellows are still breathing. Ms Zurah Namboozo had a similar ordeal. Her husband Uthman Kissugu was arrested from Butabika in similar fashion on June 8. Operatives raided his home and grabbed him commando style, never to be seen again. They came driving two vehicles. She has unsuccessfully been at CPS, Jinja road, etc.Ms Sumaya Nansamba's brother Sulait Usama, a boda boda rider, was arrested from Gayaza in Kyadondo East on June 7 and has not been seen since. He was a resident of Luzira. These women were directed to FDC headquarters to register their cases. As a party, we recently launched a book where cases like these can be recorded.We think violation of human rights is a serious matter that must be recorded if not for remedy, at least for posterity. Our children and grandchildren must have a reference of people who disappeared during the reign of Yoweri Museveni. The women told me wearing hijab and a veil is also slowly becoming a crime as they are profiled at every police station they have visited.The media vigilance secured the freedom of children arrested with their parents recently but it appears the story was abandoned. This has been the situation since the murder of Andrew Felix Kaweesi a couple of months ago. It is as if this crime was committed by thousands of people.Many Muslims have been arrested and detained for months without charge. You have watched some people collapsing at Nakawa court each time other suspects are brought and theirs are not.Now that Bobi Wine (Robert Kyagulanyi) has won the Kyadondo East by-election, I think it is important to revisit the story of people arrested after the murder of Kaweesi. I don't need to remind you of the humiliating torture they have suffered at the dreaded Nalufenya prison. The arrests have not stopped and we don't know whether they will.As for Kyadondo, I think Bobi Wine's landslide victory has blinded many of us from the abuses that characterized that by-election. Two things stood out - military/police involvement in our election and the abuse of the state by the ruling clique.Although Kyadondo East youths overpowered them, we should worry about management of elections in this country. For us as a party that is the point we made when a new electoral commission was appointed.It doesn't matter who becomes its chairman or deputy as long as the country is still run by the same clique.You saw how they took over campaign venues for other candidates resulting into the arrest of Bobi Wine on the final day of the campaign. Because Museveni wanted to cover the whole constituency in one day, the rest of the candidates were forced to abandon their campaign venues.In rural areas where the population is not as empowered as in Kyadondo East and with fewer or no cameras at all, the situation would have been different.The author is Kira Municipality MP and Opposition Chief Whip in parliament.